# MA000004 — General Retail Industry Award 2020

Menu
Go to home page
General Retail Industry Award 2020
Part 1— Application and Operation of this Award
1. Title and commencement
2. Definitions
3. The National Employment Standards and this award
4. Coverage
5. Individual flexibility arrangements
6. Requests for flexible working arrangements
7. Facilitative provisions
Part 2— Types of Employment and Classifications
8. Types of employment
9. Full-time employees
10. Part-time employees
11. Casual employees
12. Apprentices
13. Junior employees
14. Classifications
Part 3— Hours of Work
15. Ordinary hours of work and rostering arrangements
15A. Employee right to disconnect
16. Breaks
Part 4— Wages and Allowances
17. Minimum rates
18. Payment of wages
19. Allowances
20. Superannuation
Part 5— Overtime and Penalty Rates
21. Overtime
22. Penalty rates
Part 6— Shiftwork
23. Application of Part
24. What is shiftwork
25. Rate of pay for shiftwork
26. Rest breaks and meal breaks
27. Rostering restrictions
Part 7— Leave and Public Holidays
28. Annual leave
29. Personal/carer’s leave and compassionate leave
30. Parental leave and related entitlements
31. Community service leave
32. Family and domestic violence leave
33. Public holidays
Part 8— Workplace Delegates, Consultation and Dispute Resolution
33A. Workplace delegates’ rights
34. Consultation about major workplace change
35. Consultation about changes to rosters or hours of work
36. Dispute resolution
Part 9— Termination of Employment and Redundancy
37. Termination of employment
38. Redundancy
Schedule A —Classification Definitions
Schedule B —Summary of Hourly Rates of Pay
Schedule C —Summary of Monetary Allowances
Schedule D —School-based Apprentices
Schedule E —Supported Wage System
Schedule F —Agreement to Take Annual Leave in Advance
Schedule G —Agreement to Cash Out Annual Leave
MA000004
General Retail Industry Award 2020
 

This Fair Work Commission consolidated modern award incorporates all amendments up to and including 23 January 2026 (PR794705 and PR795643).

Clause(s) affected by the most recent variation(s):

2—Definitions

20—Superannuation

33A–Workplace delegates’ rights

 

Table of Contents

[Varied by PR746868, PR747326, PR750473, PR774704, PR777960]

Part 1— Application and Operation of this Award

1. Title and commencement

2. Definitions

3. The National Employment Standards and this award

4. Coverage

5. Individual flexibility arrangements

6. Requests for flexible working arrangements

7. Facilitative provisions

Part 2— Types of Employment and Classifications

8. Types of employment

9. Full-time employees

10. Part-time employees

11. Casual employees

12. Apprentices

13. Junior employees

14. Classifications

Part 3— Hours of Work

15. Ordinary hours of work and rostering arrangements

15A. Employee right to disconnect

16. Breaks

Part 4— Wages and Allowances

17. Minimum rates

18. Payment of wages

19. Allowances

20. Superannuation

Part 5— Overtime and Penalty Rates

21. Overtime

22. Penalty rates

Part 6— Shiftwork

23. Application of Part

24. What is shiftwork

25. Rate of pay for shiftwork

26. Rest breaks and meal breaks

27. Rostering restrictions

Part 7— Leave and Public Holidays

28. Annual leave

29. Personal/carer’s leave and compassionate leave

30. Parental leave and related entitlements

31. Community service leave

32. Family and domestic violence leave

33. Public holidays

Part 8— Workplace Delegates, Consultation and Dispute Resolution

33A. Workplace delegates’ rights

34. Consultation about major workplace change

35. Consultation about changes to rosters or hours of work

36. Dispute resolution

Part 9— Termination of Employment and Redundancy

37. Termination of employment

38. Redundancy

Schedule A —Classification Definitions

Schedule B —Summary of Hourly Rates of Pay

Schedule C —Summary of Monetary Allowances

Schedule D —School-based Apprentices

Schedule E —Supported Wage System

Schedule F —Agreement to Take Annual Leave in Advance

Schedule G —Agreement to Cash Out Annual Leave



Part 1—Application and Operation of this Award

1.                     Title and commencement

1.1                  This is the General Retail Industry Award 2020.

1.2                  This modern award commenced operation on 1 January 2010. The terms of the award have been varied since that date.

1.3                  A variation to this award made by the Fair Work Commission does not affect any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under this award as in force before that variation.

2.                     Definitions

[Varied by PR733977, PR750473, PR774704, PR776618, PR777231, PR794061, PR795643]

In this award:

Act means the Fair Work Act 2009 (Cth).

adult apprentice means an apprentice who is 21 years of age or over at the start of their apprenticeship.

adult employee means an employee who is 21 years of age or over.

[Definition of casual employee inserted by PR733977 from 27Sep21; varied by PR777231 from 27Aug24]

casual employee has the meaning given by section 15A of the Act.

NOTE: Section 15A of the Act was amended with effect from 26 August 2024. Under clause 102(3) of Schedule 1 to the Act, an existing employee who was a casual employee of an employer under section 15A as it was immediately before that date is taken to be a casual employee of the employer for the purposes of section 15A after that date.

community pharmacy means a business to which all of the following apply:

(a)         the business is established wholly or partly for compounding or dispensing prescriptions for, or selling medicines or drugs to, the general public from the premises on which the business is conducted, whether or not other goods are so sold from those premises; and

(b)        if required to be registered under legislation for the regulation of pharmacies in force in the place in which the premises on which the business is conducted are located, the business is so registered; and

(c)         the business is not owned by a hospital or other public institution or operated by government.

defined benefit member has the meaning given by the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992 (Cth).

employee means a national system employee as defined by section 13 of the Act.

[Definition of employee organisation inserted by PR774704; substituted retrospectively by PR795643 ppc 01Jul24]

employee organisation has the meaning given by section 12 of the Act.

employer means a national system employer as defined by section 14 of the Act.

[Definition of enterprise inserted by PR774704 from 01Jul24]

enterprise has the meaning given by section 12 of the Act.

enterprise instrument has the meaning given by subitem 2(1) of Schedule 6 to the Fair Work (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Act 2009 (Cth).

exempt public sector superannuation scheme has the meaning given by the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 (Cth).

Fair Work Regulations means the Fair Work Regulations 2009 (Cth).

fast food operations means an operation taking orders for, preparing, selling or delivering any of the following (or doing any combination of 2 or more of those things):

(a)         food or beverages sold primarily for consumptions away from the point of sale; or

(b)        food or beverages packaged, sold or served in such a way as to allow them to be consumed away from the point of sale should the customer so decide; or

(c)         food or beverages sold or served in food courts, shopping centres or retail complexes, excluding coffee shops, cafes, bars and restaurants that primarily provide a sit down service.

general retail industry is defined in clause 4.2.

immediate family has the meaning given by section 12 of the Act.

junior employee means an employee who is less than 21 years of age.

[Definition of long term casual employee deleted by PR733977 from 27Sep21]

MySuper product has the meaning given by the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 (Cth).

National Employment Standards, see Part 2-2 of the Act. Divisions 3 to 12 of Part 2-2 of the Act constitute the National Employment Standards. An extract of section 61 of the Act is reproduced below.

The National Employment Standards are minimum standards applying to employment of employees. The minimum standards relate to the following matters:

(a) maximum weekly hours (Division 3);

(b) requests for flexible working arrangements (Division 4);

[Paragraph (ba) inserted by PR733977 ppc 27Sep21; substituted by PR777231 from 27Aug24]

(ba) casual employment (Division 4A);

(c) parental leave and related entitlements (Division 5);

(d) annual leave (Division 6);

[Paragraph (e) varied by PR750473 ppc 15Mar23]

(e) personal/carer’s leave, compassionate leave and paid family and domestic violence leave (Division 7);

(f) community service leave (Division 8);

(g) long service leave (Division 9);

(h) public holidays (Division 10);

[Paragraph (ha) inserted by PR794061 ppc 10Dec25]

(ha) superannuation contributions (Division 10A);

(i) notice of termination and redundancy pay (Division 11);

(j) Fair Work Information Statement (Division 12).

on-hire means the on-hire of an employee by their employer to a client, where the employee works under the general guidance and instruction of the client or a representative of the client.

[Definition of regular casual employee inserted by PR733977 from 27Sep21]

regular casual employee has the meaning given by section 12 of the Act.

shiftworker means an employee to whom Part 6—Shiftwork applies.

shop with departments or sections means a shop that has a clearly distinguishable department or section staffed by a manager and at least 3 subordinate employees who work solely or predominantly in that department or section.

[Definition of small business employer inserted by PR774704 from 01Jul24]

small business employer has the meaning given by section 23 of the Act.

standard hourly rate means the minimum hourly rate for a Retail Employee Level 4 in Table 4—Minimum rates.

standard weekly rate means the minimum weekly rate for a Retail Employee Level 4 in Table 4—Minimum rates.

State reference public sector modern award has the meaning given by subitem 3(2) of Schedule 6A to the Fair Work (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Act 2009 (Cth).

State reference public sector transitional award has the meaning given by subitem 2(1) of Schedule 6A to the Fair Work (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Act 2009 (Cth).

Table 1—Facilitative provisions means the Table in clause 7.2.

Table 2—Span of hours means the Table in clause 15.1.

Table 3—Entitlements to meal and rest break(s) means the Table in clause 16.2.

Table 4—Minimum rates means the Table in clause 17.1.

Table 5—Junior rates (retail employee levels 1, 2 and 3 only) means the Table in clause 17.2.

Table 6—4 year apprentice minimum rates (pre-January 2014 start) means the Table in clause 17.3(a).

Table 7—4 year apprentice minimum rates (start January 2014 or later) means the Table in clause 17.3(b).

Table 8—3 year apprentice minimum rates (pre-January 2014 start) means the Table in clause 17.3(c).

Table 9—3 year apprentice minimum rates (start January 2014 or later) means the Table in clause 17.3(d).

[Definition of Table 10—Application of overtime inserted by PR776618 ppc 05Jul24]

Table 10—Application of overtime means the Table in clause 21.2(a).

Table 11—Overtime rates means the Table in clause 21.2(c).

Table 12—Penalty rates means the Table in clause 22.1.

Table 13—Period of notice means the Table in clause 37.1.

video shop means a business the primary function of which is the hire to the public of videos, DVDs or electronic games.

[Definition of workplace delegate inserted by PR774704 from 01Jul24]

workplace delegate has the meaning given by section 350C(1) of the Act.

3.                     The National Employment Standards and this award

3.1                  The National Employment Standards (NES) and this award contain the minimum conditions of employment for employees covered by this award.

3.2                  Where this award refers to a condition of employment provided for in the NES, the NES definition applies.

3.3                  The employer must ensure that copies of this award and of the NES are available to all employees to whom they apply, either on a notice board conveniently located at or near the workplace or through accessible electronic means.

4.                     Coverage

[Varied by PR764967]

4.1                  This industry award covers, to the exclusion of any other modern award:

(a)         employers in the general retail industry throughout Australia; and

[4.1(b) varied by PR764967 ppc 08Aug23]

(b)        employees (within a classification defined in Schedule A—Classification Definitions) of employers mentioned in clause 4.1(a).

4.2                  general retail industry means the retail sale or hire of goods or services for personal, household or business consumption including:

(a)         clothing; and

(b)        food; and

(c)         furniture and household goods; and

(d)        personal and recreational goods; and

(e)         bakery shops at which the predominant activity is baking products for sale on the premises; and

(f)          the provision of repair services for household equipment; and

(g)         the provision of customer information or assistance at retail complexes; and

(h)        the delivery of newspapers by employees of a newsagent,

but excluding the following that are covered by other awards:

(i)           the retail sale or hire of goods or services by any of the following:

(i)           community pharmacies; or

(ii)        pharmacies in hospitals or other institutions providing an in-patient service; or

(iii)      hair and beauty establishments; or

(iv)       stand-alone butcher shops; or

(v)         stand-alone nurseries; or

(vi)       manufacturing or processing establishments other than seafood processing establishments; and

(j)          hair and beauty work undertaken in the theatrical, amusement or entertainment industries; and

(k)        clerical functions performed away from a retail establishment; and

(l)           warehousing and distribution; and

(m)      motor vehicle retailing and motor vehicle fuel and parts retailing; and

(n)        restaurants, cafes, hotels, motels or fast food operations; and

(o)         building, construction, installation, repair or maintenance contractors engaged to perform work at a retail establishment.

4.3                  This industry award also covers:

(a)         on-hire employees working in the general retail industry (with a classification defined in Schedule A—Classification Definitions) and the on-hire employers of those employees; and

(b)        apprentices or trainees employed by a group training employer and hosted by an employer covered by this award to work in the general retail industry (with a classification defined in Schedule A—Classification Definitions) at a location where the employees mentioned in clause 4.1(b) also perform work and the group training employers of those apprentices or trainees.

4.4                  However, this industry award does not cover any of the following:

(a)         employees excluded from award coverage by the Act; or

NOTE: See section 143(7) of the Act.

(b)        employees covered by a modern enterprise award or an enterprise instrument or their employers; or

(c)         employees covered by a State reference public sector modern award or a State reference public sector transitional award or their employers; or

(d)        employers covered by any of the following awards:

(i)           the Fast Food Industry Award 2010; or

(ii)        the Meat Industry Award 2020; or

(iii)      the Hair and Beauty Industry Award 2010; or

(iv)       the Pharmacy Industry Award 2020.

4.5                  If an employer is covered by more than one award, an employee of that employer is covered by the award containing the classification that is most appropriate to the work performed by the employee and the industry in which they work.

NOTE: An employee working in the general retail industry who is not covered by this industry award may be covered by an award with occupational coverage.

5.                     Individual flexibility arrangements

5.1                  Despite anything else in this award, an employer and an individual employee may agree to vary the application of the terms of this award relating to any of the following in order to meet the genuine needs of both the employee and the employer:

(a)         arrangements for when work is performed; or

(b)        overtime rates; or

(c)         penalty rates; or

(d)        allowances; or

(e)         annual leave loading.

5.2                  An agreement must be one that is genuinely made by the employer and the individual employee without coercion or duress.

5.3                  An agreement may only be made after the individual employee has commenced employment with the employer.

5.4                  An employer who wishes to initiate the making of an agreement must:

(a)         give the employee a written proposal; and

(b)        if the employer is aware that the employee has, or should reasonably be aware that the employee may have, limited understanding of written English, take reasonable steps (including providing a translation in an appropriate language) to ensure that the employee understands the proposal.

5.5                  An agreement must result in the employee being better off overall at the time the agreement is made than if the agreement had not been made.

5.6                  An agreement must do all of the following:

(a)         state the names of the employer and the employee; and

(b)        identify the award term, or award terms, the application of which is to be varied; and

(c)         set out how the application of the award term, or each award term, is varied; and

(d)        set out how the agreement results in the employee being better off overall at the time the agreement is made than if the agreement had not been made; and

(e)         state the date the agreement is to start.

5.7                  An agreement must be:

(a)         in writing; and

(b)        signed by the employer and the employee and, if the employee is under 18 years of age, by the employee’s parent or guardian.

5.8                  Except as provided in clause 5.7(b), an agreement must not require the approval or consent of a person other than the employer and the employee.

5.9                  The employer must keep the agreement as a time and wages record and give a copy to the employee.

5.10              The employer and the employee must genuinely agree, without duress or coercion to any variation of an award provided for by an agreement.

5.11              An agreement may be terminated:

(a)         at any time, by written agreement between the employer and the employee; or

(b)        by the employer or employee giving 13 weeks’ written notice to the other party (reduced to 4 weeks if the agreement was entered into before the first full pay period starting on or after 4 December 2013).

NOTE: If an employer and employee agree to an arrangement that purports to be an individual flexibility arrangement under this award term and the arrangement does not meet a requirement set out in section 144 of the Act then the employee or the employer may terminate the arrangement by giving written notice of not more than 28 days (see section 145 of the Act).

5.12              An agreement terminated as mentioned in clause 5.11(b) ceases to have effect at the end of the period of notice required under that clause.

5.13              The right to make an agreement under clause 5 is additional to, and does not affect, any other term of this award that provides for an agreement between an employer and an individual employee.

6.                     Requests for flexible working arrangements

[6 substituted by PR763197 ppc 01Aug23]

Requests for flexible working arrangements are provided for in the NES.

NOTE: Disputes about requests for flexible working arrangements may be dealt with under clause 36—Dispute resolution and/or under section 65B of the Act.

7.                     Facilitative provisions

7.1                  This award contains facilitative provisions which allow agreement between an employer and an individual employee, or the majority of employees, on how specific award provisions are to apply at the workplace.

7.2                  The following clauses have facilitative provisions:

Table 1—Facilitative provisions

Clause

Provision

Agreement between an employer and:

15.6(g)(v)

Length of work cycle

an individual employee

15.6(j)

Rosters—number of days in work cycle

an individual employee

15.6(k)

Rosters—length of shift

an individual employee

15.6(l)

Substitution of rostered days off

the majority of employees

15.6(m)

Banking of rostered days off

an individual employee

15.7(d)

Rosters—minimum consecutive days off

an individual employee

15.8(b)

Employees regularly working Sundays

an individual employee

16.6(d)

Breaks between work periods

an individual employee or a group of employees

19.11(b)

Recall allowance

an individual employee

21.3

Time off instead of payment for overtime

an individual employee

22.2

Additional provisions for work on public holidays

an individual employee

25.3(d)

Substitution of public holiday shift – shiftwork

an individual employee

28.8

Annual leave in advance

an individual employee

28.9

Cashing out of annual leave

an individual employee

33.2

Substitution of public holidays by agreement

an individual employee

7.3                  The agreement must be kept by the employer as a time and wages record.

Part 2—Types of Employment and Classifications

8.                     Types of employment

8.1                  An employee covered by this award must be one of the following:

(a)         a full-time employee; or

(b)        a part-time employee; or

(c)         a casual employee.

8.2                  At the time of engaging an employee, the employer must inform the employee of the terms on which they are engaged, including whether they are engaged as a full-time, part-time or casual employee.

8.3                  Moving between types of employment

(a)         A full-time or casual employee can only become a part-time employee with the employee’s written consent.

(b)        Moving to part-time employment does not affect the continuity of any leave entitlements.

(c)         A full-time employee:

(i)           may request to become a part-time employee; and

(ii)        if that request is granted by the employer, may return to full-time employment at a future date agreed in writing with the employer.

9.                     Full-time employees

An employee who is engaged to work an average of 38 ordinary hours per week in accordance with an agreed hours of work arrangement is a full-time employee.

NOTE: The hours of work arrangement is agreed between the employer and the employee. See clause 15.6 (Ordinary hours of work).

10.                Part-time employees

[Substituted by PR731097 ppc 01Jul21]

10.1              An employee who is engaged to work for fewer than 38 ordinary hours per week and whose hours of work are reasonably predictable, is a part-time employee.

10.2              An employer may employ part-time employees in any classification defined in Schedule A—Classification Definitions.

10.3              This award applies to a part-time employee in the same way that it applies to a full-time employee except as otherwise expressly provided by this award.

10.4              A part-time employee is entitled to payments in respect of annual leave and personal/carer’s leave on a proportionate basis.

10.5              At the time of engaging a part-time employee, the employer must agree in writing with the employee on a regular pattern of work that must include all of the following:

(a)         the number of hours to be worked on each particular day of the week (the guaranteed hours); and

(b)        the times at which the employee will start and finish work each particular day; and

(c)         when meal breaks may be taken and their duration.

NOTE: An agreement under clause 10.5 could be recorded in writing including through an exchange of emails, text messages or by other electronic means.

10.6              Changes to regular pattern of work by agreement

The employer and the employee may agree to vary the regular pattern of work agreed under clause 10.5 on a temporary or ongoing basis, with effect from a future date or time. Any such agreement must be recorded in writing:

(a)         if the agreement is to vary the employee’s regular pattern of work for a particular rostered shift – before the end of the affected shift; and

(b)        otherwise – before the variation takes effect.

NOTE 1: An agreement under clause 10.6 could be recorded in writing including through an exchange of emails, text messages or by other electronic means.

NOTE 2: An agreement under clause 10.6 cannot result in the employee working 38 or more ordinary hours per week.

EXAMPLE: Sonya’s guaranteed hours include 5 hours work on Mondays. During a busy Monday shift, Sonya’s employer sends Sonya a text message asking her to vary her guaranteed hours that day to work 2 extra hours at ordinary rates (including any penalty rates). Sonya is happy to agree and replies by text message confirming that she agrees. The variation is agreed before Sonya works the extra 2 hours. Sonya’s regular pattern of work has been temporarily varied under clause 10.6. She is not entitled to overtime rates for the additional 2 hours.

10.7              The employer must keep a copy of any agreement under clause 10.5, and any variation of it under clause 10.6 or 10.11, and, if requested by the employee, give another copy to the employee.

10.8              For any time worked in excess of their guaranteed hours agreed under clause 10.5 or as varied under clause 10.6 or clause 10.11, the part-time employee must be paid at the overtime rate specified in Table 11—Overtime rates.

10.9              The minimum daily engagement for a part-time employee is 3 consecutive hours.

10.10          Changes to regular pattern of work by employer

(a)         An employee’s regular pattern of work agreed under clause 10.5 or 10.6, other than the employee’s guaranteed hours, may be changed by the employer giving the employee 7 days, or in an emergency 48 hours, written notice of the change.

(b)        However, the regular pattern of work of a part-time employee must not be changed from week to week or fortnight to fortnight or to avoid any award entitlements. If the employer does so, the employee must be paid any award entitlements as if the regular pattern of work had not been changed.

NOTE 1: Clause 15.7 contains additional rostering provisions. Clause 35 contains requirements to consult with employees about roster changes.

NOTE 2: See clause 27—Rostering restrictions for the rosters of shiftworkers.

NOTE 3: An employee’s guaranteed hours including the days on which those guaranteed hours are agreed to be worked can only be changed by agreement. See clause 10.6.

10.11          Review of guaranteed hours

(a)         If an employees’ guaranteed hours are less than the ordinary hours that the employee has regularly worked in the previous 12 months, the employee may request in writing that the employer increase their guaranteed hours on an ongoing basis to reflect the ordinary hours regularly being worked.

(b)        An employee may only make a request under clause 10.11(a) once every 12 months.

(c)         The employer must respond in writing to the employee’s request within 21 days.

(d)        The employer may refuse the request only on reasonable grounds.

EXAMPLE: Reasonable grounds to refuse the request may include the reason that the employee has regularly worked more ordinary hours than their guaranteed hours is temporary—for example where this is the direct result of another employee being absent on annual leave, long service leave or worker’s compensation.

(e)         Before refusing a request under clause 10.11(c), the employer must discuss the request with the employee and genuinely try to reach agreement on an increase to the employee’s guaranteed hours that will give the employee more predictable hours of work and reasonably accommodate the employee’s circumstances.

(f)          If the employer and employee agree on an increase to the employee’s guaranteed hours, the employer’s written response must record the agreed increase.

(g)         If the employer and employee do not reach agreement, the employer’s written response must include details of the reasons for the refusal, including the ground or grounds for refusal and how the ground or grounds apply.

NOTE: If the employer and employee agree in writing to increase the employee’s guaranteed hours, this will vary the agreement under clause 10.5.

(h)        The employer and employee may seek to resolve a dispute about a request under clause 10.11(a) in accordance with clause 36—Dispute resolution.

NOTE: This could include a dispute about whether the employer’s refusal of a request was reasonable, whether the employer discussed the request with the employee as required under clause 10.11(e), or whether the employer responded in writing to the request as required under clauses 10.11(c), (f) or (g).

11.                Casual employees

[Varied by PR733977, PR735945, PR777231]

[11.1 deleted by PR733977 from 27Sep21]

[11.2 deleted by PR733977 from 27Sep21]

[11.3 renumbered as 11.1 by PR733977 from 27Sep21]

11.1              An employer must pay a casual employee for each hour worked a loading of 25% on top of the minimum hourly rate otherwise applicable under clause 17—Minimum rates.

NOTE 1: The casual loading is payable instead of entitlements from which casuals are excluded by the terms of this award and the NES. See Part 2-2 of the Act.

NOTE 2: Overtime rates applicable to casuals are set out in Table 11—Overtime rates.

NOTE 3: Penalty rates applicable to casuals are set out in Table 12—Penalty rates.

[11.4 renumbered as 11.2 by PR733977 from 27Sep21; substituted by PR735945 ppc 06Dec21]

11.2              The minimum daily engagement of a casual employee is 3 hours, or 1.5 hours’ in the circumstances set out in clause 11.3.

[11.5 renumbered as 11.3 by PR733977 from 27Sep21]

11.3              The circumstances are:

(a)         the employee is a full-time secondary school student; and

(b)        the employee is engaged to work between 3:00 pm and 6:30 pm on a day on which the employee is required to attend school; and

(c)         the employee, with the approval of the employee’s parent or guardian, agrees to work for fewer than 3 hours; and

(d)        employment for a longer period than the agreed period is not possible either because of the operational requirements of the employer or the unavailability of the employee.

[11.6 renumbered as 11.4 by PR733977 from 27Sep21]

11.4              An employer must pay a casual employee at the end of each engagement or weekly or fortnightly in accordance with pay arrangements for full-time and part-time employees.

11.5              Changes to casual employment status

[11.5 inserted by PR733977 from 27Sep21; renamed and substituted by PR777231 from 27Aug24]

A pathway for employees to change from casual employment to full-time or part-time employment is provided for in the NES. See sections 66A to 66MA of the Act.

NOTE: Disputes about changes to casual employment status may be dealt with under sections 66M and 66MA of the Act and/or under clause 36—Dispute resolution.

[11.7 deleted by PR733977 from 27Sep21]

12.                Apprentices

12.1              An employer may engage apprentices.

12.2              Any engagement must be in accordance with the law regulating apprenticeships in force in the place in which the apprentice is engaged.

12.3              This award applies to an apprentice in the same way that it applies to a full-time employee except as otherwise expressly provided by this award.

12.4              An employer must pay an apprentice in accordance with clause 17.3—Apprentice rates or, for an adult apprentice, 17.4—Adult apprentices.

12.5              Except in an emergency, an employer must not require an apprentice to work overtime or shiftwork at any time that would prevent their attendance at training in accordance with their training contract.

12.6              Training

(a)         An employer must release an apprentice from work to attend training or any assessment in accordance with their training contract without loss of pay or continuity of employment.

(b)        Subject to Schedule D—School-based Apprentices, time spent by an apprentice in attending training or any assessment in accordance with their training contract is to be regarded as time worked for the employer for the purpose of calculating the apprentice’s wages and determining the apprentice’s employment conditions.

(c)         An employer must reimburse an apprentice for all fees paid by the apprentice themselves to a registered training organisation (RTO) for courses that the apprentice is required to attend, and all costs incurred by the apprentice in purchasing textbooks (not provided or otherwise made available by the employer) that the apprentice is required to study, for the purposes of the apprenticeship.

(d)        The employer must make any reimbursement required under clause 12.6(c) by whichever of the following is the later:

(i)           6 months after the start of the apprenticeship; or

(ii)        6 months after the relevant stage of the apprenticeship; or

(iii)      3 months after the start of the training provided by the RTO.

(e)         Reimbursement under clause 12.6(c) is subject to the employer being satisfied that the apprentice is making satisfactory progress in the apprenticeship.

12.7              Block release training

(a)         Clause 12.7 applies to an apprentice who is required to attend block release training in accordance with their training contract.

(b)        If the training requires an overnight stay, the employer must pay for the reasonable travel costs incurred by the apprentice in travelling to and from the training.

(c)         The employer is not obliged to pay costs under clause 12.7(b) if the apprentice could have attended training at a closer venue and attending the more distant training had not been agreed between the employer and the apprentice.

(d)        Reasonable travel costs in clause 12.7(b) include:

(i)           the total cost of reasonable transportation (including transportation of tools, where required) to and from the training; and

(ii)        accommodation costs; and

(iii)      reasonable expenses, including for meals, incurred which exceed those incurred in the normal course of travelling to and from the workplace.

(e)         Reasonable costs in clause 12.7(b) do not include payment for travelling time or expenses incurred while not travelling to and from the block release training.

(f)          The amount an employer must pay under clause 12.7(b) may be reduced by any amount that the apprentice has received, or was eligible to receive, for travel costs to attend block release training under a Government apprentice assistance scheme.

(g)         The employer may only make a reduction under clause 12.7(f) for an amount that an apprentice was eligible to receive, but did not receive, if the employer advised the apprentice in writing of the availability of the assistance and the apprentice chose not to seek it.

13.                Junior employees

NOTE: Junior employee is defined in clause 2—Definitions.

13.1              An employer may engage junior employees.

13.2              An employer must pay a junior employee in accordance with Table 5—Junior rates (retail employee levels 1, 2 and 3 only).

14.                Classifications

14.1              An employer must classify an employee covered by this award in accordance with Schedule A—Classification Definitions.

14.2              The classification by the employer must be based on the skill level as determined by the employer that the employee is required to exercise in order to carry out the principal functions of the employment.

14.3              Employers must notify employees in writing of their classification and of any change to it.

Part 3—Hours of Work

15.                Ordinary hours of work and rostering arrangements

[Varied by PR731097, PR772934, PR776618]

15.1              Ordinary hours may be worked by an employee on the day specified in column 1 during the span of ordinary hours specified in column 2 of Table 2—Span of hours.

Table 2—Span of hours

Column 1

Days

Column 2

Span of hours

Monday to Friday, inclusive

7.00 am – 9.00 pm

Saturday

7.00 am – 6.00 pm

Sunday

9.00 am – 6.00 pm

15.2              However, ordinary hours may be worked:

(a)         from 5:00 am in a newsagency; or

(b)        until midnight in a video shop; or

[15.2(c) varied by PR772934 retrospectively from ppc 01Oct20]

(c)         until 11:00 pm on all days of the week if the trading hours of the retailer extend beyond 9:00 pm on a Monday to Friday or 6:00 pm on a Saturday or Sunday.

15.3              Ordinary hours of work on any day are continuous, except for rest breaks and meal breaks as specified in clause 16—Breaks.

15.4              Subject to clause 15.5, the maximum number of ordinary hours that can be worked on any day is 9.

15.5              An employer may roster an employee to work up to 11 ordinary hours on one day per week.

15.6              Full-time employees

(a)         In each establishment an assessment must be made as to the kind of arrangement for working the average of 38 ordinary hours per week required for full-time employment that best suits the business of the establishment.

(b)        Either the employer or the employee may initiate the making of an assessment.

(c)         An assessment cannot be made more frequently than once per year.

(d)        Any proposed arrangement arising out of the making of an assessment must be discussed with the affected employees with the objective of reaching agreement on it.

(e)         Different groups of employees may be subject to different arrangements.

(f)          An arrangement may provide for a full-time employee to be rostered to work the required number of hours in any of the ways mentioned in clause 15.6(g) and may adopt any of the options mentioned in clause 15.6(h) for working the average of 38 hours per week.

(g)         The ways are:

(i)           working 38 hours per week; or

(ii)        working 76 hours over 2 consecutive weeks; or

(iii)      working 114 hours over 3 consecutive weeks; or

(iv)       working 152 hours over 4 consecutive weeks; or

(v)         working an average of 38 hours per week over a longer period agreed between the employer and the employee.

(h)        The options are:

(i)           working 5 days of 7 hours and 36 minutes each per week; or

(ii)        working days of varying length per week; or

(iii)      taking 4 hours off per fortnight in addition to the rostered day off; or

(iv)       taking a fixed day off per 4 week cycle; or

(v)         taking a rotating day off per 4 week cycle; or

(vi)       having an accumulating day off per 4 week cycle with a maximum of 5 days being accumulated over 5 such cycles.

(i)           In an establishment at which at least 15 employees are employed per week on a regular basis, the employer must not roster an employee to work ordinary hours on more than 19 days per 4 week cycle.

(j)          Clause 15.6(i) is subject to any agreement to the contrary between the employer and an individual employee.

(k)        By agreement between the employer and an individual employee, the employee may be rostered to work:

(i)           not more than 4 hours on one day per 2 week cycle; or

(ii)        not more than 6 hours on one day per week; or

(iii)      not more than 7 hours and 36 minutes on any day.

(l)           Substitution of rostered days off

(i)           With the agreement of the majority of affected employees, an employer may substitute another day or half day for a rostered day or half day off of an employee in any of the following circumstances:

 a machinery breakdown; or

 an electrical power shortage or breakdown; or

 an unexpected spike in the work required to be performed by the business; or

 another emergency situation.

(ii)        A rostered day off may be changed by the employer and an employee by mutual agreement.

(m)      Banking of rostered days off

(i)           By agreement between the employer and an employee, up to 5 rostered days off may be banked in any one year.

(ii)        A banked rostered day off may be taken at a time that is mutually convenient to the employer and the employee.

15.7              Rostering arrangements

(a)         A roster period cannot exceed 4 weeks except by agreement in clause 15.6(g)(v).

(b)        The employer must not roster an employee to work ordinary hours on more than 5 days per week, except as provided by clause 15.7(c).

[15.7(c) substituted by PR776618 ppc 05Jul24]

(c)         The employer may roster an employee to work ordinary hours on 6 days in one week per two-week cycle, provided that in the other week in that cycle the employee is rostered to work ordinary hours on no more than 4 days.

(d)        Consecutive days off

(i)           The employer must roster an employee to work ordinary hours in such a way that they have 2 consecutive days off per week or 3 consecutive days off per 2 week cycle.

(ii)        Clause 15.7(d)(i) is subject to any agreement for different arrangements entered into between the employer and an individual employee at the written request of the employee.

(iii)      Different arrangements agreed under clause 15.7(d)(ii) must be recorded in the time and wages record.

(iv)       The employee may end an agreement under clause 15.7(d)(ii) at any time by giving the employer 4 weeks’ notice.

(v)         An employee cannot be required as a condition of employment to make a request under clause 15.7(d)(ii).

(e)         Consecutive days of work

The maximum number of consecutive days on which an employee may work (whether ordinary hours or reasonable additional hours) is 6.

15.8              Employees regularly working Sundays

(a)         The employer must roster an employee who regularly works Sundays in such a way that they have 3 consecutive days off (including Saturday and Sunday) per 4 week cycle.

(b)        Clause 15.8(a) is subject to any agreement for different arrangements entered into by the employer and an individual employee at the written request of the employee.

(c)         Different arrangements agreed under clause 15.8(b) must be recorded in the time and wages record.

(d)        The employee may end an agreement under clause 15.8(b) by giving the employer 4 weeks’ notice.

(e)         An employee cannot be required as a condition of employment to agree to an arrangement under clause 15.8(b).

15.9              Notification of rosters

[15.9 substituted by PR731097 ppc 01Jul21]

(a)         The employer must ensure that the work roster is available to all employees, either exhibited on a notice board which is conveniently located at or near the workplace or through accessible electronic means.

(b)        The roster must show for each employee:

(i)           the number of ordinary hours to be worked by them each week; and

(ii)        the days of the week on which they will work; and

(iii)      the times at which they start and finish work.

(c)         The employer must retain a copy of each completed work roster for at least 12 months and produce it, on request, for inspection to an authorised person.

(d)        Due to unexpected operational requirements, the roster of an employee other than a part-time employee may be changed by mutual agreement by the employer and the employee at any time before the employee arrives for work.

NOTE 1: Clause 10.6 deals with when the roster of a part-time employee may be changed by mutual agreement.

NOTE 2: Clause 35 contains requirements to consult with employees about roster changes.

(e)         For employees other than part-time employees, the employer may make permanent roster changes at any time by giving the employee at least 7 days’ written notice of the change. If the employee disagrees with the change, the period of written notice of the change required to be given is extended to at least 14 days in total.

NOTE: Clause 10.10 deals with when the roster of a part-time employee may be changed by their employer.

(f)          The employer and employee may seek to resolve a dispute about a roster change in accordance with clause 36—Dispute resolution.

(g)         Clause 15.9(h) applies to an employee other than a part-time employee whose roster is changed in a particular week for a one-off event that does not constitute an emergency and then reverts to the previous roster in the following week.

(h)        The employer must pay the employee at the overtime rate specified in Table 11—Overtime rates for any extra time worked by the employee because of the roster change in clause 15.9(g).

(i)           An employer must not change the roster of an employee with the intention of avoiding payment of shiftwork or penalty rates, loadings or other applicable benefits. If the employer does so, the employee must be paid any shiftwork or penalty rates, loadings or benefits as if the roster had not been changed.

NOTE: See clause 27—Rostering restrictions for the rosters of shiftworkers.

15A. Employee right to disconnect

[15A inserted by PR777960 from 26Aug24]

15A.1 Clause 15A provides for the exercise of an employee’s right to disconnect under section 333M of the Act.

NOTE:

(a) Section 333M provides that, unless it is unreasonable to do so, an employee may refuse to monitor, read or respond to contact, or attempted contact, from:

(1) their employer outside of the employee’s working hours,

(2) a third party if the contact or attempted contact relates to, their work and is outside of the employee's working hours.

(b) Section 333M(3) lists matters that must be taken into account in determining whether an employee’s refusal is unreasonable.

(c) Section 333M(5) provides that an employee’s refusal will be unreasonable if the contact or attempted contact is required under a law of the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory.

(d) Section 333N provides for the resolution of disputes about whether an employee’s refusal is unreasonable and about the operation of section 333M.

(e) The general protections in Part 3–1 of the Act prohibit an employer taking adverse action against an employee because of the employee’s right to disconnect under section 333M of the Act.

15A.2 Clause 15A applies from the following dates:

(a)         26 August 2024—for employers that are not small business employers on this date and their employees.

(b)        26 August 2025—for employers that are small business employers on 26 August 2024 and their employees.

15A.3 An employer must not directly or indirectly prevent an employee from exercising their right to disconnect under the Act.

15A.4 Clause 15A.3 does not prevent an employer from contacting, or attempting to contact, an employee outside of the employee’s working hours in circumstances including to notify them of:

(a)         an emergency roster change under clause 10.10(a); or

(b)        a recall to work under clause 19.11.

16.                Breaks

[Varied by PR774533]

16.1              Clause 16 gives an employee an entitlement to meal breaks and rest breaks.

16.2              An employee who works the number of hours in any one shift specified in column 1 of Table 3—Entitlements to meal and rest break(s) is entitled to a rest break or rest breaks as specified in column 2 or a meal break or meal breaks as specified in column 3.

Table 3—Entitlements to meal and rest break(s)

Column 1

Hours worked per shift

Column 2

Breaks

Column 3

Meal breaks

4 or more but no more than 5

One 10 minute paid rest break

 

More than 5 but less than 7

One 10 minute paid rest break

One unpaid meal break of at least 30 minutes and not more than 60 minutes

7 or more but less than 10

Two 10 minute paid rest breaks (one to be taken in the first half of the shift and one in the second half)

One unpaid meal break of at least 30 minutes and not more than 60 minutes

10 or more

Two 10 minute paid rest breaks (one to be taken in the first half of the shift and one in the second half)

Two unpaid meal breaks of at least 30 minutes and not more than 60 minutes

NOTE 1: An employee who works less than 4 hours in a shift has no entitlement to a paid rest break.

NOTE 2: The rest breaks and meal breaks of shiftworkers are paid. See clause 26—Rest breaks and meal breaks.

16.3              The timing of rest and meal breaks and their duration are to be included in the roster and are subject to the roster provisions of this award.

16.4              In rostering rest and meal breaks, the employer must seek to ensure that the employee has meaningful breaks during work hours.

16.5              An employer cannot require an employee:

(a)         to take a rest break or meal break within the first or the last hour of work; or

(b)        to take a rest break combined with a meal break; or

(c)         to work more than 5 hours without taking a meal break.

16.6              Breaks between work periods

(a)         An employee must have a minimum break of 12 hours between when the employee finishes work on one day and starts work on the next.

[16.6(b) substituted by PR774533 ppc 14May24]

(b)        If an employee starts work again without having had 12 hours off work, the employer must pay the employee for each hour worked at the rate of 200% of the employee’s minimum hourly rate until the employee has a break of 12 consecutive hours.

NOTE: Table 12—Penalty rates in clause 22.1 prescribes the penalty rate payable for all work performed on public holidays.

(c)         The employee must not suffer any loss of pay for ordinary hours not worked during the period of a break required by clause 16.6.

(d)        The employer and an individual employee or a group of employees may agree that clause 16.6 is to have effect as if it provided for a minimum break of 10 hours.

Part 4—Wages and Allowances

17.                Minimum rates

[Varied by PR718821, PR726419; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR728848, PR730833, PR729257, PR731018, PR733977, PR740678, PR762112, PR767876, PR773888, PR786542]

17.1              Adult rates

[17.1 varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

An employer must pay an adult employee (other than an apprentice) the minimum hourly rate specified in column 3 or for a full-time employee the minimum weekly rate specified in column 2, in accordance with the employee classification specified in column 1 of Table 4—Minimum rates.

NOTE 1: Adult employee is defined in clause 2—Definitions.

NOTE 2: Provision for calculating rates for a junior employee is at clause 17.2.

NOTE 3: Clause 25—Rate of pay for shiftwork sets out rates of pay for shiftwork.

NOTE 4: Schedule B—Summary of Hourly Rates of Pay contains a summary of hourly rates including overtime, shiftwork and penalty rates.

Table 4—Minimum rates

Column 1

Employee classification

Column 2

Minimum weekly rate

(full-time employee)

Column 3

Minimum hourly rate

 

$

$

Retail Employee Level 1

1008.90

26.55

Retail Employee Level 2

1032.00

27.16

Retail Employee Level 3

1048.00

27.58

Retail Employee Level 4

1068.40

28.12

Retail Employee Level 5

1112.30

29.27

Retail Employee Level 6

1128.50

29.70

Retail Employee Level 7

1185.10

31.19

Retail Employee Level 8

1233.20

32.45

17.2              Junior rates (retail employee levels 1, 2 and 3 only)

[17.2 renamed and substituted by PR728848; varied by PR767876 ppc 31Dec23]

NOTE: Junior employee is defined in clause 2—Definitions.

An employer must pay a junior employee, who is classified as a retail employee level 1, 2 or 3 and aged as specified in column 1 of Table 5—Junior rates (retail employee levels 1, 2 and 3 only), the minimum percentage specified in column 2 of the minimum rate that would otherwise be applicable under Table 4—Minimum rates.

Table 5—Junior rates (retail employee levels 1, 2 and 3 only)

Column 1

Age

Column 2

% of minimum rate

Under 16 years of age

45%

16 years of age

50%

17 years of age

60%

18 years of age

70%

19 years of age

80%

20 years of age and employed by the employer for 6 months or less

90%

20 years of age and employed by the employer for more than 6 months

100%

17.3              Apprentice rates

(a)         An employer must pay an apprentice completing a 4 year apprenticeship who began the apprenticeship before 1 January 2014 the minimum percentage specified in column 2 of the standard weekly rate in accordance with the year of the apprenticeship specified in column 1 of Table 6—4 year apprentice minimum rates (pre-January 2014 start).

Table 6—4 year apprentice minimum rates (pre-January 2014 start)

Column 1

Year of apprenticeship

Column 2

% of the standard weekly rate

1st year

50%

2nd year

60%

3rd year

80%

4th year

90%

(b)        An employer must pay an apprentice completing a 4 year apprenticeship who began the apprenticeship on 1 January 2014 or later the minimum percentage specified in column 2 or, for an apprentice who has completed year 12, the minimum percentage specified in column 3 of the standard weekly rate in accordance with the year of the apprenticeship specified in column 1 of Table 7—4 year apprentice minimum rates (start January 2014 or later).

Table 7—4 year apprentice minimum rates (start January 2014 or later)

Column 1

Year of apprenticeship

Column 2

% of the standard weekly rate if apprentice has not completed year 12

Column 3

% of the standard weekly rate if apprentice has completed year 12

1st year

50%

55%

2nd year

60%

65%

3rd year

80%

80%

4th year

90%

90%

(c)         An employer must pay an apprentice completing a 3 year apprenticeship who began the apprenticeship before 1 January 2014 the minimum percentage specified in column 2 of the standard weekly rate in accordance with the year of the apprenticeship specified in column 1 of Table 8—3 year apprentice minimum rates (pre-January 2014 start).

Table 8—3 year apprentice minimum rates (pre-January 2014 start)

Column 1

Year of apprenticeship

Column 2

% of the standard weekly rate

1st year

50%

2nd year

60%

3rd year

80%

(d)        An employer must pay an apprentice completing a 3 year apprenticeship who began the apprenticeship on 1 January 2014 or later the minimum percentage specified in column 2 (or, for an apprentice who has completed year 12, the minimum percentage specified in column 3) of the standard weekly rate in accordance with the year of the apprenticeship specified in column 1 of Table 9—3 year apprentice minimum rates (start January 2014 or later).

Table 9—3 year apprentice minimum rates (start January 2014 or later)

Column 1

Year of apprenticeship

Column 2

% of the standard weekly rate if apprentice has not completed year 12

Column 3

% of the standard weekly rate if apprentice has completed year 12

1st year

50%

55%

2nd year

60%

65%

3rd year

80%

80%

17.4              Adult apprentices

NOTE: Adult apprentice is defined in clause 2—Definitions.

(a)         An employer must pay a first year adult apprentice who began the apprenticeship on 1 January 2014 or later and is in the first year of their apprenticeship at not less than whichever of the following is the greater:

(i)           80% of the standard weekly rate; or

(ii)        the rate in either Table 7—4 year apprentice minimum rates (start January 2014 or later) or Table 9—3 year apprentice minimum rates (start January 2014 or later), as applicable, for the first year of the apprenticeship.

(b)        An employer must pay an adult apprentice who commenced on 1 January 2014 or later and is in the second or a subsequent year of the apprenticeship at not less than whichever of the following is the greater:

(i)           the lowest rate in Table 4—Minimum rates; or

(ii)        the rate in either Table 7—4 year apprentice minimum rates (start January 2014 or later) or Table 9—3 year apprentice minimum rates (start January 2014 or later), as applicable, for the relevant year of the apprenticeship.

[17.4(c) varied by PR733977 from 27Sep21]

(c)         Clause 17.4(d) applies to an employee who, immediately before entering into a training agreement as an adult apprentice with an employer, had been employed by the employer as a full-time employee for not less than 6 months, or as a part-time or regular casual employee for not less than 12 months.

(d)        The minimum rate that was applicable to the employee immediately before the person entered into the training agreement continues to be applicable to the employee throughout the apprenticeship.

17.5              Higher duties

(a)         An employer must pay an employee who performs for more than 2 hours on any particular day or shift duties of a classification higher than the employee’s ordinary classification, the minimum hourly rate specified in column 3 of Table 4—Minimum rates for that higher classification for the whole of that day or shift.

(b)        An employer must pay an employee who performs for 2 hours or less on any particular day or shift duties of a classification higher than the employee’s ordinary classification, the minimum hourly rate specified in column 3 of Table 4—Minimum rates for that higher classification for the time during which those duties were performed.

17.6              Supported wage system

For employees who, because of the effects of a disability, are eligible for a supported wage, see Schedule E—Supported Wage System.

17.7              National training wage

(a)         Schedule E to the Miscellaneous Award 2020 sets out minimum wage rates and conditions for employees undertaking traineeships.

[17.7(b) varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

(b)        This award incorporates the terms of Schedule E to the Miscellaneous Award 2020 as at 1 July 2025. Provided that any reference to “this award” in Schedule E to the Miscellaneous Award 2020 is to be read as referring to the General Retail Industry Award 2020 and not the Miscellaneous Award 2020.

[Note inserted by PR723829; deleted by PR726419; inserted by PR730833; deleted by PR731018 ppc 01Sep21]

18.                Payment of wages

NOTE: Regulations 3.33(3) and 3.46(1)(g) of Fair Work Regulations 2009 set out the requirements for pay records and the content of payslips including the requirement to separately identify any allowance paid.

18.1              The employer may determine the pay period of an employee as being either weekly or fortnightly. However, if before 1 January 2010 the employer paid employees classified at Retail Employee Level 4 or above on a monthly pay cycle, the employer may continue that arrangement.

18.2              Wages must be paid for a pay period according to the number of hours worked by the employee in the period or they may be averaged over a fortnight.

18.3              Pay day

(a)         Wages must be paid on a regular pay day.

(b)        Employers must notify employees in writing about which day is the regular pay day.

(c)         The regular pay day of an employee may only be changed by the employer giving the employee 4 weeks’ written notice.

18.4              Payment on termination of employment

(a)         The employer must pay an employee no later than 7 days after the day on which the employee’s employment terminates:

(i)           the employee’s wages under this award for any complete or incomplete pay period up to the end of the day of termination; and

(ii)        all other amounts that are due to the employee under this award and the NES.

(b)        The requirement to pay wages and other amounts under clause 18.4(a) is subject to further order of the Commission and the employer making deductions authorised by this award or the Act.

NOTE 1: Section 117(2) of the Act provides that an employer must not terminate an employee’s employment unless the employer has given the employee the required minimum period of notice or “has paid” to the employee payment instead of giving notice.

NOTE 2: Clause 18.4(b) allows the Commission to make an order delaying the requirement to make a payment under this clause. For example, the Commission could make an order delaying the requirement to pay redundancy pay if an employer makes an application under section 120 of the Act for the Commission to reduce the amount of redundancy pay an employee is entitled to under the NES.

NOTE 3: State and Territory long service leave laws or long service leave entitlements under section 113 of the Act, may require an employer to pay an employee for accrued long service leave on the day on which the employee’s employment terminates or shortly after.

19.                Allowances

[Varied by PR718821, PR718977; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR729257, PR729444, PR740678, PR740850, PR762112, PR762270, PR773888, PR774057, PR786542, PR786707]

NOTE: Regulations 3.33(3) and 3.46(1)(g) of Fair Work Regulations 2009 set out the requirements for pay records and the content of payslips including the requirement to separately identify any allowance paid.

19.1              Clause 19 gives employees an entitlement to monetary allowances of specified kinds in specified circumstances.

NOTE: Schedule C—Summary of Monetary Allowances contains a summary of monetary allowances and methods of adjustment.

19.2              Meal allowance

(a)         Clause 19.2 applies to an employee to whom all of the following apply:

(i)           the employee is required to work overtime of more than one hour on any day after the time at which the employee ordinarily finishes work for the day; and

(ii)        the employee was not given at least 24 hours’ notice of that requirement; and

(iii)      the employee cannot reasonably return home for a meal within the period of the meal break.

(b)        The employer must:

[19.2(b)(i) varied by PR718977, PR740850, PR762270, PR774057, PR786707 ppc 01Jul25]

(i)           pay the employee a meal allowance of $23.59; or

(ii)        supply the employee with a meal.

[19.2(c) varied by PR718977, PR740850, PR762270, PR774057, PR786707 ppc 01Jul25]

(c)         If the number of hours worked under a requirement mentioned in clause 19.2(a)(i) exceeds 4, the employer must pay the employee a further meal allowance of $21.39.

19.3              Special clothing allowance

(a)         In clause 19.3 special clothing means any article of clothing (including uniform, waterproof or other protective clothing) that the employer requires the employee to wear or that it is necessary for the employee to wear.

(b)        The employer must reimburse an employee who is required to wear special clothing for the cost of purchasing any such clothing (including purchasing replacement clothing due to normal wear and tear) that is not supplied or paid for by the employer.

(c)         If the employee is responsible for laundering any special clothing that is required to be worn by them, the employer must pay the employee a laundry allowance of:

(i)           $6.25 per week for a full-time employee; and

(ii)        $1.25 per shift for a part-time or casual employee.

19.4              Excess travelling costs

(a)         Clause 19.4 applies to an employee who is required to work at a place other than their usual place of work for a period of up to 3 weeks.

(b)        The employer must reimburse the employee any additional costs they incurred in travelling to and from the other place of work.

19.5              Travelling time reimbursement

(a)         Clause 19.5 applies to an employee who on any day is required to work at a place other than their usual place of work.

(b)        The employer must pay the employee at their ordinary rate of pay (or at 150% of that rate on a Sunday or public holiday) for time spent travelling both ways between the employee’s residence (or, if the employer provides transport from a pick up point, between that pick up point) and the other place of work in excess of the time normally spent in travelling to and from their usual place of work.

(c)         The employer must also reimburse the employee any additional costs they incurred in travelling to and from the other place of work.

19.6              Moving expenses

(a)         Clause 19.6 applies if an employer transfers an employee from one township to another.

(b)        The employer must pay the total cost (including fares and other transport charges) of moving the employee and any member of the employee’s immediate family who reside in the employee’s household.

19.7              Motor vehicle allowance

[19.7 varied by PR729444, PR740850, PR762270, PR774057 ppc 01Jul24]

If an employer requests an employee to use their own motor vehicle in performing their duties, the employer must pay the employee an allowance of $0.98 for each kilometre travelled.

19.8              Transport reimbursement

(a)         Clause 19.8 applies to an employee (other than a shiftworker) to whom each of the following applies:

(i)           the employee starts work before 7.00 am or starts or finishes work after 10.00 pm; and

(ii)        the employee’s regular means of transport is not available; and

(iii)      the employee is unable to arrange their own alternative means of transport; and

(iv)       a proper means of transport to or from the employee’s usual place of residence is not provided to, or arranged for, the employee by the employer at no cost to the employee.

(b)        The employer must reimburse the employee the cost they reasonably incurred in taking a commercial passenger vehicle between the place of employment and the employee’s usual place of residence.

19.9              Cold work allowance

(a)         Clause 19.9 applies to an employee who is principally employed on any day to enter cold chambers or to stock or refill refrigerated storages such as dairy cases or freezer cabinets.

[19.9(b) varied by PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

(b)        The employer must pay the employee an allowance of $0.37 per hour while so employed.

[19.9(c) varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

(c)         If a cold chamber in which the employee is required to work is below 0°C, the employer must pay the employee an additional allowance of $0.56 per hour while so employed.

19.10          First aid allowance

(a)         Clause 19.10 applies to an employee who:

(i)           has a current first aid qualification from St John Ambulance Australia or a similar body; and

(ii)        is appointed by the employer to perform first aid duty.

[19.10(b) varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

(b)        The employer must pay the employee an allowance of $13.89 per week.

19.11          Recall allowance

(a)         Clause 19.11 applies to an employee who for any reason is recalled to work by the employer to perform specific duties on a day on which they:

(i)           have completed their normal roster; or

(ii)        did not work.

(b)        Unless otherwise agreed between the employer and the employee, the employer must pay the employee at the appropriate rate of pay for whichever of the following is the greater:

(i)           the time between when the employee leaves their place of residence until they return there;

(ii)        3 hours.

19.12          Liquor licence

[19.12 varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

The employer must pay an employee who holds a liquor licence under a relevant State or Territory law an allowance of $33.12 per week.

19.13          Broken Hill

[19.13 varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

The employer must pay an employee at a workplace within the County of Yancowinna in New South Wales (Broken Hill) an allowance of $1.20 per hour.

20.                Superannuation

[Varied by PR771237, PR794705]

20.1              Superannuation legislation

[20.1 substituted by PR771237 ppc 09Apr24]

(a)         The NES and Superannuation legislation, including the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992 (Cth), the Superannuation Guarantee Charge Act 1992 (Cth), the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 (Cth) and the Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993 (Cth), deal with the superannuation rights and obligations of employers and employees.

(b)        The rights and obligations in clause 20 supplement those in superannuation legislation and the NES.

NOTE: Under superannuation legislation:

(a) Individual employees generally have the opportunity to choose their own superannuation fund.

(b) If a new employee does not choose a superannuation fund, the employer must ask the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) whether the employee is an existing member of a stapled superannuation fund and, if stapled fund details are provided by the ATO, make contributions to the stapled fund.

(c) If an employee does not choose a superannuation fund and does not have a stapled fund, the choice of superannuation fund requirements will be satisfied by contributions made to a superannuation fund nominated in the award covering the employee, provided the fund is able to accept contributions for the benefit of the employee.

(d) A fund may not be able to accept contributions for the benefit of an employee if the employee would be a new member of the fund’s MySuper product and the MySuper product is closed to new members because it has failed the performance tests of Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) for 2 consecutive years.

20.2              Employer contributions

An employer must make such superannuation contributions to a superannuation fund for the benefit of an employee as will avoid the employer being required to pay the superannuation guarantee charge under superannuation legislation with respect to that employee.

20.3              Voluntary employee contributions

(a)         Subject to the governing rules of the relevant superannuation fund, an employee may, in writing, authorise their employer to pay on behalf of the employee a specified amount from the post-taxation wages of the employee into the same superannuation fund as the employer makes the superannuation contributions provided for in clause 20.2.

(b)        An employee may adjust the amount the employee has authorised their employer to pay from the wages of the employee from the first of the month following the giving of three months’ written notice to their employer.

(c)         The employer must pay the amount authorised under clause 20.3(a) or 20.3(b) no later than 28 days after the end of the month in which the deduction authorised under clause 20.3(a) or 20.3(b) was made.

20.4              Superannuation fund

[20.4 varied by PR771237; substituted by PR794705 ppc 23Jan26]

Unless, to comply with superannuation legislation, the employer is required to make the superannuation contributions provided for in clause 20.2 to another superannuation fund, the employer must make the superannuation contributions provided for in clause 20.2 and pay any amount authorised under clauses 20.3(a) or 20.3(b) to one of the following superannuation funds or its successor, provided that, in respect of new employees, the fund is able to accept new beneficiaries:

(a)         Retail Employees Superannuation Trust (REST);

(b)        Australian Retirement Trust;

(c)         HOSTPLUS Superannuation Fund;

(d)        CareSuper;

(e)         any superannuation fund to which the employer was making superannuation contributions for the benefit of its employees before 12 September 2008, provided the superannuation fund is an eligible choice fund and is a fund that offers a MySuper product or is an exempt public sector superannuation scheme; or

(f)          a superannuation fund or scheme which the employee is a defined benefit member of.

20.5              Absence from work

Subject to the governing rules of the relevant superannuation fund, the employer must also make the superannuation contributions provided for in clause 20.2 and pay the amount authorised under clause 20.3(a) or 20.3(b):

(a)         Paid leave—while the employee is on any paid leave;

(b)        Work-related injury or illness—for the period of absence from work (subject to a maximum of 52 weeks) of the employee due to work-related injury or work-related illness provided that:

(i)           the employee is receiving workers compensation payments or is receiving regular payments directly from the employer in accordance with the statutory requirements; and

(ii)        the employee remains employed by the employer.

Part 5—Overtime and Penalty Rates

21.                Overtime

[Varied by PR723906; corrected by PR724574; varied by PR731097, PR763197, PR776618]

21.1              Reasonable overtime

(a)         Subject to section 62 of the Act and clause 21.1, an employer may require an employee to work reasonable overtime hours at overtime rates.

(b)        An employee may refuse to work overtime hours if they are unreasonable.

(c)         In determining whether overtime hours are reasonable or unreasonable for the purpose of clause 21.1 the following must be taken into account:

(i)           any risk to employee health and safety from working the additional hours;

(ii)        the employee’s personal circumstances, including family responsibilities;

(iii)      the needs of the workplace or enterprise in which the employee is employed;

(iv)       whether the employee is entitled to receive overtime payments, penalty rates or other compensation for, or a level of remuneration that reflects an expectation of, working additional hours;

(v)         any notice given by the employer of any request or requirement to work the additional hours;

(vi)       any notice given by the employee of his or her intention to refuse to work the additional hours;

(vii)    the usual patterns of work in the industry, or the part of an industry, in which the employee works;

(viii)  the nature of the employee’s role, and the employee’s level of responsibility;

(ix)       whether the additional hours are in accordance with averaging terms in this award inserted pursuant to section 63 of the Act, that applies to the employee; and

(x)         any other relevant matter.

21.2              Payment of overtime

[21.2(a) substituted by PR776618 ppc 05Jul24]

(a)         An employer must pay an employee overtime for hours worked in accordance with Table 10—Application of overtime:

Table 10—Application of overtime

Column 1

Type of employment

Column 2

When an employer must pay overtime

Full-time employee

Overtime is payable for hours worked:

(i) in excess of the ordinary hours of work; or

(ii) outside the span of ordinary hours (excluding shiftwork), subject to clause 15.2; or

(iii) outside the roster conditions prescribed in clause 15—Ordinary hours of work and rostering arrangements.

Part-time employee

Overtime is payable for hours worked:

(i) in excess of their guaranteed hours as agreed in clause 10.5(a) or as varied under clause 10.6 or clause 10.11; or

(ii) outside the span of ordinary hours (excluding shiftwork), subject to clause 15.2.

Casual employee

Overtime is payable for hours worked:

(i) in excess of 38 ordinary hours per week or, if the casual employee works in accordance with a roster, in excess of 38 ordinary hours per week averaged over the course of the roster cycle; or

(ii) outside the span of ordinary hours (excluding shiftwork), subject to clause 15.2; or

(iii) in excess of 11 hours on one day of the week and in excess of 9 hours on any other day of the week.

[21.2(b) and (c) deleted by PR776618 ppc 05Jul24]

[21.2(d) renumbered as (b) by PR776618 ppc 05Jul24]

(b)        Overtime is calculated on a daily basis.

[21.2(e) renumbered as (c) and varied by PR776618 ppc 05Jul24]

(c)         Overtime rate

An employer must pay an employee for overtime worked in accordance with clause 21.2(c) at the following rates:

Table 11—Overtime rates

Column 1

For overtime worked on

Column 2

Overtime rate
Full-time and part-time employees

% of minimum hourly rate of pay

Column 3

Overtime rate
Casual employees

% of minimum hourly rate of pay

(inclusive of casual loading)

Monday to Saturday—first 3 hours

150%

175%

Monday to Saturday—after 3 hours

200%

225%

Sunday

200%

225%

Public holiday

250%

275%

[NOTE 1 varied by PR723906 ppc 20Nov20]

NOTE 1: Schedule B—Summary of Hourly Rates of Pay sets out the hourly overtime rate for all employee classifications according to when overtime is worked.

[NOTE 2 inserted by PR723906 ppc 20Nov20; corrected by PR724574 ppc 20Nov20]

NOTE 2: The overtime rates for casual employees have been calculated by adding the casual loading prescribed by clause 11.1 to the overtime rates for full-time and part-time employees prescribed by clause 21.2(c).

21.3              Time off instead of payment for overtime

(a)         An employee and employer may agree in writing to the employee taking time off instead of being paid for a particular amount of overtime that has been worked by the employee.

(b)        The period of time off that an employee is entitled to take is equivalent to the overtime payment that would have been made.

EXAMPLE: By making an agreement under clause 21.3 an employee who worked 2 overtime hours at the rate of 150% is entitled to 3 hours’ time off.

(c)         Time off must be taken:

(i)           within the period of 6 months after the overtime is worked; and

(ii)        at a time or times within that period of 6 months agreed by the employee and employer.

(d)        If the employee requests at any time to be paid for overtime covered by an agreement under clause 21.3 but not taken as time off, the employer must pay the employee for the overtime, in the next pay period following the request, at the overtime rate applicable to the overtime when worked.

(e)         If time off for overtime that has been worked is not taken within the period of 6 months mentioned in clause 21.3(c), the employer must pay the employee for the overtime, in the next pay period following those 6 months, at the overtime rate applicable to the overtime when worked.

(f)          An employer must not exert undue influence or undue pressure on an employee in relation to a decision by the employee to make, or not make, an agreement to take time off instead of payment for overtime.

(g)         An employee may, under section 65 of the Act, request to take time off, at a time or times specified in the request or to be subsequently agreed by the employer and the employee, instead of being paid for overtime worked by the employee. If the employer agrees to the request then clause 21.3 will apply for overtime that has been worked.

[Note substituted by PR763197 ppc 01Aug23]

NOTE: If an employee makes a request under section 65 of the Act for a change in working arrangements, the employer may only refuse that request on reasonable business grounds (see section 65A(3) of the Act).

(h)        If, on the termination of the employee’s employment, time off for overtime worked by the employee covered by an agreement under clause 21.3 has not been taken, the employer must pay the employee for the overtime at the overtime rate applicable to the overtime when worked.

NOTE: Under section 345(1) of the Act, a person must not knowingly or recklessly make a false or misleading representation about the workplace rights of another person under clause 21.3.

22.                Penalty rates

[Varied by PR727385, PR776618]

NOTE: Clause 22 sets out penalty rates for hours worked at specified times or on specified days.

[22.1 varied by PR727385; ppc 01Mar21]

22.1              An employer must pay an employee as follows for hours worked by the employee during a period, or on a day, specified in column 1 of Table 12—Penalty rates:

(a)         for a full-time or part-time employee, at the percentage specified in column 2 of that Table of the minimum hourly rate of the employee under Table 4—Minimum rates; or

[22.1(b) varied by PR776618 ppc 05Jul24]

(b)        for a casual employee, at the percentage specified in column 3 of that Table of the minimum hourly rate of the employee under Table 4—Minimum rates.

Table 12—Penalty rates

Column 1

Time of ordinary hours worked

Column 2

Full-time and part-time employees

Column 3

Casual employees

 

% of minimum hourly rate

% of minimum hourly rate (inclusive of casual loading)

Monday to Friday—after 6.00 pm

125%

150%

Saturday—all ordinary hours

125%

150%

Sunday – all ordinary hours

150%

175%

Public holiday – all ordinary hours

225%

250%

NOTE: Schedule B—Summary of Hourly Rates of Pay sets out the hourly penalty rate for all employee classifications.

22.2              Additional provisions for work on public holidays

An employer and a full-time or part-time employee may agree that, instead of the employee being paid at an additional 125% of the minimum hourly rate of the employee under Table 4—Minimum rates for hours worked on a public holiday, the following arrangements are to apply:

(a)         the employee is to be paid at the minimum hourly rate of the employee under Table 4—Minimum rates for hours worked on the public holiday; and

(b)        an amount of paid time equivalent to the hours worked on the public holiday is to be added to the employee’s annual leave or the employee is to be allowed to take that time off within a period of 28 days after the public holiday. Time off not taken within that period of 28 days must be paid out.

Part 6—Shiftwork

23.                Application of Part

23.1              Part 6 applies only to persons specifically employed to do shiftwork.

23.2              To avoid doubt, Part 6 does not apply to a person who is not employed to do shiftwork but who works additional hours or overtime.

24.                What is shiftwork

24.1              For an employee (other than a baking production employee) shiftwork means a shift starting at or after 6.00 pm on one day and before 5.00 am on the following day.

24.2              For a baking production employee shiftwork means a shift starting at or after midnight and before 6.00 am.

24.3              Shiftwork does not include a shift which starts and finishes on the same day within the span of ordinary hours specified in this award.

24.4              All hours of work on a shift are continuous.

24.5              All time between starting and finishing work on any shift counts and must be paid for as time worked.

25.                Rate of pay for shiftwork

[Varied by PR747326]

25.1              Shiftwork rates

(a)         Any shiftwork between midnight Sunday and midnight Friday must be paid at the rate of 130% of the minimum hourly rate for full-time and part-time employees and at 155% of the minimum hourly rate for casual employees (inclusive of the casual loading).

(b)        Any shiftwork on a Saturday must be paid at the rate of 150% of the minimum hourly rate for full-time and part-time employees and at 175% of the minimum hourly rate for casual employees, inclusive of the casual loading.

(c)         Any shiftwork on a Sunday must be paid at the rate of 175% of the minimum hourly rate for full-time and part-time employees and at 200% of the minimum hourly rate for casual employees, inclusive of the casual loading.

25.2              Baking production employees—early morning shift rates

(a)         A baking production employee who begins a shift at or after 2.00 am and before 6.00 am is entitled to an early morning shift rate of 112.5% of the minimum hourly rate for full-time and part-time employees and 137.5% of the minimum hourly rate for casual employees, inclusive of the casual loading.

(b)        A baking production employee who begins a shift at or after midnight and before 2.00 am is entitled to a night shift rate of 130% of the minimum hourly rate for full-time and part-time employees and 155% of the minimum hourly rate for casual employees, inclusive of the casual loading.

(c)         The rates set out in clauses 25.2(a) and 25.2(b) apply instead of shiftwork rates and overtime payments for all hours up to 38 hours per week and 9 hours per day.

25.3              Public holiday shift rates

(a)         If an employee elects to work on a public holiday shift then the provisions set out in Table 12—Penalty rates apply for all hours of the shift.

(b)        A shift must be taken to be a public holiday shift if it begins on a public holiday but ends on a day that is not a public holiday.

(c)         An employee who elects not to work on a public holiday shift is entitled to be absent without loss of pay.

[25.3(d) substituted by PR747326 ppc 14Nov22]

(d)        An employer and employee may agree to substitute another shift or part-shift for a shift or part-shift that would otherwise be on a public holiday under the NES.

(e)         The provisions set out in Table 12—Penalty rates apply for all hours of the substitute shift.

26.                Rest breaks and meal breaks

Despite clause 16.2 (Breaks), all rest breaks and meal breaks taken by shiftworkers are paid breaks and form part of the hours of work.

27.                Rostering restrictions

27.1              Shiftwork rosters cannot be varied so as to avoid the public holiday entitlements of shiftworkers.

27.2              Rosters of shiftworkers cannot be arranged so as to have them do both shiftwork and work that is not shiftwork in the same week.

Part 7—Leave and Public Holidays

28.                Annual leave

[Varied by PR751031]

NOTE: Where an employee is receiving over-award payments resulting in the employee’s base rate of pay being higher than the rate specified under this award, the employee is entitled to receive the higher rate while on a period of paid annual leave (see sections 16 and 90 of the Act).

28.1              Annual leave is provided for in the NES. It does not apply to casual employees.

28.2              Additional paid annual leave for certain shiftworkers

(a)         Clause 28.2 applies to an employee who is a shiftworker regularly rostered to work on Sundays and public holidays in a business in which shifts are continuously rostered 24 hours a day for 7 days a week.

(b)        The employee is a shiftworker for the purposes of the NES (entitlement to an additional week of paid annual leave).

28.3              Additional payment for annual leave

(a)         During a period of paid annual leave an employer must pay an employee an additional payment in accordance with clause 28.3 for the employee’s ordinary hours of work in the period.

(b)        The additional payment is payable on leave accrued.

(c)         For an employee other than a shiftworker the additional payment is the greater of:

(i)           17.5% of the employee’s minimum hourly rate for all ordinary hours of work in the period; or

(ii)        The employee’s minimum hourly rate for all ordinary hours of work in the period inclusive of penalty rates as specified in clause 22—Penalty rates.

(d)        For a shiftworker the additional payment is the greater of:

(i)           17.5% of the employee’s minimum hourly rate for all ordinary hours of work in the period; or

(ii)        The employee’s minimum hourly rate for all ordinary hours of work in the period inclusive of penalty rates for shiftwork as specified in clause 25—Rate of pay for shiftwork.

28.4              Direction to take annual leave during shutdown

[28.4 renamed and substituted by PR751031 ppc 01May23]

(a)         Clause 28.4 applies if an employer:

(i)           intends to shut down all or part of its operation for a particular period (temporary shutdown period); and

(ii)        wishes to require affected employees to take paid annual leave during that period.

(b)        The employer must give the affected employees 28 days’ written notice of a temporary shutdown period, or any shorter period agreed between the employer and the majority of relevant employees.

(c)         The employer must give written notice of a temporary shutdown period to any employee who is engaged after the notice is given under clause 28.4(b) and who will be affected by that period, as soon as reasonably practicable after the employee is engaged.

(d)        The employer may direct the employee to take a period of paid annual leave to which the employee has accrued an entitlement during a temporary shutdown period.

(e)         A direction by the employer under clause 28.4(d):

(i)           must be in writing; and

(ii)        must be reasonable.

(f)          The employee must take paid annual leave in accordance with a direction under clause 28.4(d).

(g)         In respect of any part of a temporary shutdown period which is not the subject of a direction under clause 28.4(d), an employer and employee may agree, in writing, for the employee to take leave without pay during that part of the temporary shutdown.

(h)        An employee may take annual leave in advance during a temporary shutdown period in accordance with an agreement under clause 28.8.

(i)           In determining the amount of paid annual leave to which an employee has accrued an entitlement, any period of paid annual leave taken in advance by the employee, in accordance with an agreement under clause 28.8, to which an entitlement has not been accrued, is to be taken into account.

(j)          Clauses 28.5 to 28.7 do not apply to a period of annual leave that an employee is required to take during a temporary shutdown period in accordance with clause 28.4.

28.5              Excessive leave accruals: general provision

NOTE: Clauses 28.5 to 28.7 contain provisions, additional to the NES, about the taking of paid annual leave as a way of dealing with the accrual of excessive paid annual leave. See Part 2–2, Division 6 of the Act.

(a)         An employee has an excessive leave accrual if the employee has accrued more than 8 weeks’ paid annual leave (or 10 weeks’ paid annual leave for a shiftworker, as defined by clause 28.2).

(b)        If an employee has an excessive leave accrual, the employer or the employee may seek to confer with the other and genuinely try to reach agreement on how to reduce or eliminate the excessive leave accrual.

(c)         Clause 28.6 sets out how an employer may direct an employee who has an excessive leave accrual to take paid annual leave.

(d)        Clause 28.7 sets out how an employee who has an excessive leave accrual may require an employer to grant paid annual leave requested by the employee.

28.6              Excessive leave accruals: direction by employer that leave be taken

(a)         If an employer has genuinely tried to reach agreement with an employee under clause 28.5(b) but agreement is not reached (including because the employee refuses to confer), the employer may direct the employee in writing to take one or more periods of paid annual leave.

(b)        However, a direction by the employer under clause 28.6(a):

(i)           is of no effect if it would result at any time in the employee’s remaining accrued entitlement to paid annual leave being less than 6 weeks when any other paid annual leave arrangements (whether made under clause 28.5, 28.6 or 28.7 or otherwise agreed by the employer and employee) are taken into account; and

(ii)        must not require the employee to take any period of paid annual leave of less than one week; and

(iii)      must not require the employee to take a period of paid annual leave beginning less than 8 weeks, or more than 12 months, after the direction is given; and

(iv)       must not be inconsistent with any leave arrangement agreed by the employer and employee.

(c)         The employee must take paid annual leave in accordance with a direction under clause 28.6(a) that is in effect.

(d)        An employee to whom a direction has been given under clause 28.6(a) may request to take a period of paid annual leave as if the direction had not been given.

NOTE 1: Paid annual leave arising from a request mentioned in clause 28.6(d) may result in the direction ceasing to have effect. See clause 28.6(b)(i).

NOTE 2: Under section 88(2) of the Act, the employer must not unreasonably refuse to agree to a request by the employee to take paid annual leave.

28.7              Excessive leave accruals: request by employee for leave

(a)         If an employee has genuinely tried to reach agreement with an employer under clause 28.5(b) but agreement is not reached (including because the employer refuses to confer), the employee may give a written notice to the employer requesting to take one or more periods of paid annual leave.

(b)        However, an employee may only give a notice to the employer under clause 28.7(a) if:

(i)           the employee has had an excessive leave accrual for more than 6 months at the time of giving the notice; and

(ii)        the employee has not been given a direction under clause 28.6(a) that, when any other paid annual leave arrangements (whether made under clause 28.5, 28.6 or 28.7 or otherwise agreed by the employer and employee) are taken into account, would eliminate the employee’s excessive leave accrual.

(c)         A notice given by an employee under clause 28.7(a) must not:

(i)           if granted, result in the employee’s remaining accrued entitlement to paid annual leave being at any time less than 6 weeks when any other paid annual leave arrangements (whether made under clause 28.5, 28.6 or 28.7 or otherwise agreed by the employer and employee) are taken into account; or

(ii)        provide for the employee to take any period of paid annual leave of less than one week; or

(iii)      provide for the employee to take a period of paid annual leave beginning less than 8 weeks, or more than 12 months, after the notice is given; or

(iv)       be inconsistent with any leave arrangement agreed by the employer and employee.

(d)        An employee is not entitled to request by a notice under clause 28.7(a) more than 4 weeks’ paid annual leave (or 5 weeks’ paid annual leave for a shiftworker as defined by clause 28.2) in any period of 12 months.

(e)         The employer must grant paid annual leave requested by a notice under clause 28.7(a).

28.8              Annual leave in advance

(a)         An employer and employee may agree in writing to the employee taking a period of paid annual leave before the employee has accrued an entitlement to the leave.

(b)        An agreement must:

(i)           state the amount of leave to be taken in advance and the date on which leave is to commence; and

(ii)        be signed by the employer and employee and, if the employee is under 18 years of age, by the employee’s parent or guardian.

NOTE: An example of the type of agreement required by clause 28.8 is set out at Schedule F—Agreement to Take Annual Leave in Advance. There is no requirement to use the form of agreement set out at Schedule F—Agreement to Take Annual Leave in Advance.

(c)         The employer must keep a copy of any agreement under clause 28.8 as an employee record.

(d)        If, on the termination of the employee’s employment, the employee has not accrued an entitlement to all of a period of paid annual leave already taken in accordance with an agreement under clause 28.8, the employer may deduct from any money due to the employee on termination an amount equal to the amount that was paid to the employee in respect of any part of the period of annual leave taken in advance to which an entitlement has not been accrued.

28.9              Cashing out of annual leave

(a)         Paid annual leave must not be cashed out except in accordance with an agreement under clause 28.9.

(b)        Each cashing out of a particular amount of paid annual leave must be the subject of a separate agreement under clause 28.9.

(c)         An employer and an employee may agree in writing to the cashing out of a particular amount of accrued paid annual leave by the employee.

(d)        An agreement under clause 28.9 must state:

(i)           the amount of leave to be cashed out and the payment to be made to the employee for it; and

(ii)        the date on which the payment is to be made.

(e)         An agreement under clause 28.9 must be signed by the employer and employee and, if the employee is under 18 years of age, by the employee’s parent or guardian.

(f)          The payment must not be less than the amount that would have been payable had the employee taken the leave at the time the payment is made

(g)         An agreement must not result in the employee’s remaining accrued entitlement to paid annual leave being less than 4 weeks.

(h)        The maximum amount of accrued paid annual leave that may be cashed out in any period of 12 months is 2 weeks.

(i)           The employer must keep a copy of any agreement under clause 28.9 as an employee record.

NOTE 1: Under section 344 of the Act, an employer must not exert undue influence or undue pressure on an employee to make, or not make, an agreement under clause 28.9.

NOTE 2: Under section 345(1) of the Act, a person must not knowingly or recklessly make a false or misleading representation about the workplace rights of another person under clause 28.9.

NOTE 3: An example of the type of agreement required by clause 28.9 is set out at Schedule G—Agreement to Cash Out Annual Leave. There is no requirement to use the form of agreement set out at Schedule G—Agreement to Cash Out Annual Leave.

29.                Personal/carer’s leave and compassionate leave

29.1              Personal/carer’s leave and compassionate leave are provided for in the NES.

29.2              Subject to clause 29.3, casual employees are entitled to be absent from work (whether by making themselves unavailable for work or by leaving work) to care for a person who requires care or support because of:

(a)         illness or an injury; or

(b)        an emergency.

29.3              A casual employee may only be absent from work under clause 29.2 for a period of up to 48 hours.

29.4              With the agreement of the employer, a casual employee may be absent from work for a purpose mentioned in clause 29.2 for longer than 48 hours.

29.5              A casual employee is not entitled to be paid for time away from work for a purpose mentioned in clause 29.2.

30.                Parental leave and related entitlements

[30 varied by PR763197 ppc 01Aug23]

Parental leave and related entitlements are provided for in the NES.

NOTE: Disputes about requests for extensions to unpaid parental leave may be dealt with under clause 36—Dispute resolution and/or under section 76B of the Act.

31.                Community service leave

Community service leave is provided for in the NES.

32.                Family and domestic violence leave

[32—Unpaid family and domestic violence leave renamed and substituted by PR750473 ppc 15Mar23]

Family and domestic violence leave is provided for in the NES.

NOTE 1: Information provided to employers concerning an employee’s experience of family and domestic violence is sensitive and if mishandled can have adverse consequences for the employee. Employers are subject to confidentiality requirements regarding the handling of this information under section 106C of the Act and requirements as to what can be reported on payslips pursuant to regulations 3.47 and 3.48 of the Fair Work Regulations.

NOTE 2: Depending upon the circumstances, evidence that would satisfy a reasonable person of the employee’s need to take family and domestic violence leave may include a document issued by the police service, a court or family violence support service, or a statutory declaration.

33.                Public holidays

[Varied by PR747326]

33.1              Public holiday entitlements are provided for in the NES.

33.2              Substitution of public holidays by agreement

(a)         An employer and employee may agree to substitute another day for a day that would otherwise be a public holiday under the NES.

(b)        An employer and employee may agree to substitute another part-day for a part-day that would otherwise be a part-day public holiday under the NES.

33.3              Payment for work on public holiday or substitute day

(a)         An employer must pay an employee who works on a public holiday or on a day that is substituted for a public holiday at the public holiday penalty rate set out in Table 12—Penalty rates.

(b)        If an employee works on both a public holiday and on a day that is substituted for the public holiday, the public holiday penalty rate is applicable to only one of those days. The employee may choose which one is to be paid at the public holiday penalty rate.

(c)         An employer must pay an employee who works on a part-day public holiday or the substitute part-day at the public holiday penalty rate set out in Table 12—Penalty rates.

(d)        If an employee works on both the part-day holiday and the substitute part-day, the public holiday penalty rate is applicable to only one of those days. The employee may choose which part-day is to be paid at the public holiday penalty rate.

[33.4 deleted by PR747326 ppc 14Nov22]

Part 8—Workplace Delegates, Consultation and Dispute Resolution

[Part 8—Consultation and Dispute Resolution renamed by PR774704 from 01Jul24]

33A. Workplace delegates’ rights

[33A inserted by PR774704; substituted retrospectively by PR795643 ppc 01Jul24]

33A.1 Clause 33A provides for the exercise of the rights of workplace delegates set out in section 350C of the Act.

NOTE: Under section 350C(4) of the Act, the employer is taken to have afforded a workplace delegate the rights mentioned in section 350C(3) if the employer has complied with clause 33A.

33A.2 In clause 33A:

(a) employer means the employer of the workplace delegate;

(b) delegate’s organisation means the employee organisation in accordance with the rules of which the workplace delegate was appointed or elected;

(c) eligible workers means members and persons eligible to be members of the workplace delegate’s organisation who work in a particular enterprise.

33A.3 Before exercising entitlements under clause 33A, a workplace delegate must give the employer written notice of their appointment or election as a workplace delegate. If requested, the workplace delegate must provide the employer with evidence that would satisfy a reasonable person of their appointment or election.

33A.4 An employee who ceases to be a workplace delegate must give written notice to the employer within 14 days.

33A.5 Right of representation

A workplace delegate may represent the industrial interests of eligible workers who wish to be represented by the workplace delegate in matters including:

(a) consultation about major workplace change;

(b) consultation about changes to rosters or hours of work;

(c) resolution of disputes;

(d) disciplinary processes;

(e) enterprise bargaining where the workplace delegate has been appointed as a bargaining representative under section 176 of the Act or is assisting the delegate’s organisation with enterprise bargaining; and

(f) any process or procedure within an award, enterprise agreement or workplace policy under which eligible workers are entitled to be represented and which concerns their industrial interests.

33A.6 Entitlement to reasonable communication

(a) A workplace delegate may communicate with eligible workers in relation to their industrial interests under clause 33A.5. This includes discussing membership of the delegate’s organisation and representation with eligible workers.

(b) A workplace delegate may communicate with eligible workers during working hours or work breaks, or before or after work.

33A.7 Entitlement to reasonable access to the workplace and workplace facilities

(a) The employer must provide a workplace delegate with access to or use of the following workplace facilities:

(i) a room or area to hold discussions that is fit for purpose, private and accessible by the workplace delegate and eligible workers;

(ii) a physical or electronic noticeboard;

(iii) electronic means of communication ordinarily used in the workplace by the employer to communicate with eligible workers and by eligible workers to communicate with each other, including access to Wi-Fi;

(iv) a lockable filing cabinet or other secure document storage area; and

(v) office facilities and equipment including printers, scanners and photocopiers.

(b) The employer is not required to provide access to or use of a workplace facility under clause 33A.7(a) if:

(i) the workplace does not have the facility;

(ii) due to operational requirements, it is impractical to provide access to or use of the facility at the time or in the manner it is sought; or

(iii) the employer does not have access to the facility at the enterprise and is unable to obtain access after taking reasonable steps.

33A.8 Entitlement to reasonable access to training

Unless the employer is a small business employer, the employer must provide a workplace delegate with access to up to 5 days of paid time during normal working hours for initial training and at least one day each subsequent year, to attend training related to representation of the industrial interests of eligible workers, subject to the following conditions:

(a) In each year commencing 1 July, the employer is not required to provide access to paid time for training to more than one workplace delegate per 50 eligible workers.

(b) The number of eligible workers will be determined on the day a delegate requests paid time to attend training, as the number of eligible workers who are:

(i) full-time or part-time employees; or

(ii) regular casual employees.

(c) Payment for a day of paid time during normal working hours is payment of the amount the workplace delegate would have been paid for the hours the workplace delegate would have been rostered or required to work on that day if the delegate had not been absent from work to attend the training.

(d) The workplace delegate must give the employer not less than 5 weeks’ notice (unless the employer and delegate agree to a shorter period of notice) of the dates, subject matter, the daily start and finish times of the training, and the name of the training provider.

(e) If requested by the employer, the workplace delegate must provide the employer with an outline of the training content.

(f) The employer must advise the workplace delegate not less than 2 weeks from the day on which the training is scheduled to commence, whether the workplace delegate’s access to paid time during normal working hours to attend the training has been approved. Such approval must not be unreasonably withheld.

(g) The workplace delegate must, within 7 days after the day on which the training ends, provide the employer with evidence that would satisfy a reasonable person of their attendance at the training.

33A.9 Exercise of entitlements under clause 33A

(a) A workplace delegate’s entitlements under clause 33A are subject to the conditions that the workplace delegate must, when exercising those entitlements:

(i) comply with the reasonable policies and procedures of the employer, including reasonable codes of conduct and requirements in relation to occupational health and safety and acceptable use of ICT resources;

(ii) not hinder, obstruct or prevent eligible workers exercising their rights to freedom of association.

(b) When exercising any entitlements under clause 33A, a workplace delegate must, other than in the reasonable exercise of those entitlements:

(i) comply with their duties and obligations as an employee; and

(ii) not hinder, obstruct or prevent the normal performance of work.

(c) Clause 33A does not require the employer to provide a workplace delegate with access to electronic means of communication in a way that provides individual contact details for eligible workers.

(d) Clause 33A does not require an eligible worker to be represented by a workplace delegate without the worker’s agreement.

NOTE: Under section 350A of the Act, the employer must not:

(a) unreasonably fail or refuse to deal with a workplace delegate; or

(b) knowingly or recklessly make a false or misleading representation to a workplace delegate; or

(c) unreasonably hinder, obstruct or prevent the exercise of the rights of a workplace delegate under the Act or clause 33A.

34.                Consultation about major workplace change

34.1              If an employer makes a definite decision to make major changes in production, program, organisation, structure or technology that are likely to have significant effects on employees, the employer must:

(a)         give notice of the changes to all employees who may be affected by them and their representatives (if any); and

(b)        discuss with affected employees and their representatives (if any):

(i)           the introduction of the changes; and

(ii)        their likely effect on employees; and

(iii)      measures to avoid or reduce the adverse effects of the changes on employees; and

(c)         commence discussions as soon as practicable after a definite decision has been made.

34.2              For the purposes of the discussion under clause 34.1(b), the employer must give in writing to the affected employees and their representatives (if any) all relevant information about the changes including:

(a)         their nature; and

(b)        their expected effect on employees; and

(c)         any other matters likely to affect employees.

34.3              Clause 34.2 does not require an employer to disclose any confidential information if its disclosure would be contrary to the employer’s interests.

34.4              The employer must promptly consider any matters raised by the employees or their representatives about the changes in the course of the discussion under clause 34.1(b).

34.5              In clause 34 significant effects, on employees, includes any of the following:

(a)         termination of employment; or

(b)        major changes in the composition, operation or size of the employer’s workforce or in the skills required; or

(c)         loss of, or reduction in, job or promotion opportunities; or

(d)        loss of, or reduction in, job tenure; or

(e)         alteration of hours of work; or

(f)          the need for employees to be retrained or transferred to other work or locations; or

(g)         job restructuring.

34.6              Where this award makes provision for alteration of any of the matters defined at clause 34.5, such alteration is taken not to have significant effect.

35.                Consultation about changes to rosters or hours of work

35.1              Clause 35 applies if an employer proposes to change the regular roster or ordinary hours of work of an employee, other than an employee whose working hours are irregular, sporadic or unpredictable.

35.2              The employer must consult with any employees affected by the proposed change and their representatives (if any).

35.3              For the purpose of the consultation, the employer must:

(a)         provide to the employees and representatives mentioned in clause 35.2 information about the proposed change (for example, information about the nature of the change and when it is to begin); and

(b)        invite the employees to give their views about the impact of the proposed change on them (including any impact on their family or caring responsibilities) and also invite their representative (if any) to give their views about that impact.

35.4              The employer must consider any views given under clause 35.3(b).

35.5              Clause 35 is to be read in conjunction with any other provisions of this award concerning the scheduling of work or the giving of notice.

36.                Dispute resolution

[Varied by PR763197, PR777231, PR777960]

36.1              Clause 36 sets out the procedures to be followed if a dispute arises about a matter under this award or in relation to the NES.

36.2              The parties to the dispute must first try to resolve the dispute at the workplace through discussion between the employee or employees concerned and the relevant supervisor.

36.3              If the dispute is not resolved through discussion as mentioned in clause 36.2, the parties to the dispute must then try to resolve it in a timely manner at the workplace through discussion between the employee or employees concerned and more senior levels of management, as appropriate.

36.4              If the dispute is unable to be resolved at the workplace and all appropriate steps have been taken under clauses 36.2 and 36.3, a party to the dispute may refer it to the Fair Work Commission.

36.5              The parties may agree on the process to be followed by the Fair Work Commission in dealing with the dispute, including mediation, conciliation and consent arbitration.

36.6              If the dispute remains unresolved, the Fair Work Commission may use any method of dispute resolution that it is permitted by the Act to use and that it considers appropriate for resolving the dispute.

36.7              A party to the dispute may appoint a person, organisation or association to support and/or represent them in any discussion or process under clause 36.

36.8              While procedures are being followed under clause 36 in relation to a dispute:

(a)         work must continue in accordance with this award and the Act; and

(b)        an employee must not unreasonably fail to comply with any direction given by the employer about performing work, whether at the same or another workplace, that is safe and appropriate for the employee to perform.

36.9              Clause 36.8 is subject to any applicable work health and safety legislation.

[Note 1 and Note 2 inserted by PR763197; deleted by PR777960 from 26Aug24]

[Note inserted by PR777960 from 26Aug24; varied by PR777231 from 27Aug24]

NOTE: In addition to clause 36, the Act contains dispute resolution procedures as follows:

For a dispute about rights under the Act to

Section

Request flexible working arrangements

65B

Change casual employment status

66M

Request an extension to unpaid parental leave

76B

Exercise an employee’s right to disconnect

333N

   

Part 9—Termination of Employment and Redundancy

37.                Termination of employment

[Varied by PR776618]

NOTE: The NES sets out requirements for notice of termination by an employer. See sections 117 and 123 of the Act.

37.1              Notice of termination by an employee

(a)         Clause 37.1 applies to all employees except those identified in sections 123(1) and 123(3) of the Act.

[37.1(b) varied by PR776618 ppc 05Jul24]

(b)        An employee must give the employer notice of termination in accordance with Table 13—Period of notice of at least the period specified in column 2 according to the period of continuous service of the employee specified in column 1.

Table 13—Period of notice

Column 1

Employee’s period of continuous service with the employer at the end of the day the notice is given

Column 2

Period of notice

Not more than 1 year

1 week

More than 1 year but not more than 3 years

2 weeks

More than 3 years but not more than 5 years

3 weeks

More than 5 years

4 weeks

NOTE: The notice of termination required to be given by an employee is the same as that required of an employer except that the employee does not have to give additional notice based on the age of the employee.

(c)         In clause 37.1(b) continuous service has the same meaning as in section 117 of the Act.

(d)        If an employee who is at least 18 years old does not give the period of notice required under clause 37.1(b), then the employer may deduct from wages due to the employee under this award an amount that is no more than one week’s wages for the employee.

(e)         If the employer has agreed to a shorter period of notice than that required under clause 37.1(b), then no deduction can be made under clause 37.1(d).

(f)          Any deduction made under clause 37.1(d) must not be unreasonable in the circumstances.

37.2              Job search entitlement

(a)         Where an employer has given notice of termination to an employee, the employee must be allowed time off without loss of pay of up to one day for the purpose of seeking other employment.

(b)        The time off under clause 37.2 is to be taken at times that are convenient to the employee after consultation with the employer.

38.                Redundancy

[Varied by PR728848]

[Note inserted by PR728848 ppc 01May21]

NOTE: Redundancy pay is provided for in the NES. See sections 119–123 of the Act.

38.1              Transfer to lower paid duties on redundancy

(a)         Clause 38.1 applies if, because of redundancy, an employee is transferred to new duties to which a lower ordinary rate of pay applies.

(b)        The employer may:

(i)           give the employee notice of the transfer of at least the same length as the employee would be entitled to under section 117 of the Act as if it were a notice of termination given by the employer; or

(ii)        transfer the employee to the new duties without giving notice of transfer or before the expiry of a notice of transfer, provided that the employer pays the employee as set out in clause 38.1(c).

(c)         If the employer acts as mentioned in clause 38.1(b)(ii), the employee is entitled to a payment of an amount equal to the difference between the ordinary rate of pay of the employee (inclusive of all-purpose allowances, shift rates and penalty rates applicable to ordinary hours) for the hours of work the employee would have worked in the first role, and the ordinary rate of pay (also inclusive of all-purpose allowances, shift rates and penalty rates applicable to ordinary hours) of the employee in the second role for the period for which notice was not given.

38.2              Employee leaving during redundancy notice period

(a)         An employee given notice of termination in circumstances of redundancy may terminate their employment during the minimum period of notice prescribed by section 117(3) of the Act.

(b)        The employee is entitled to receive the benefits and payments they would have received under clause 38 or under sections 119–123 of the Act had they remained in employment until the expiry of the notice.

(c)         However, the employee is not entitled to be paid for any part of the period of notice remaining after the employee ceased to be employed.

38.3              Job search entitlement

(a)         Where an employer has given notice of termination to an employee in circumstances of redundancy, the employee must be allowed time off without loss of pay of up to one day each week of the minimum period of notice prescribed by section 117(3) of the Act for the purpose of seeking other employment.

(b)        If an employee is allowed time off without loss of pay of more than one day under clause 38.3(a), the employee must, at the request of the employer, produce proof of attendance at an interview.

(c)         A statutory declaration is sufficient for the purpose of clause 38.3(b).

(d)        An employee who fails to produce proof when required under clause 38.3(b) is not entitled to be paid for the time off.

(e)         This entitlement applies instead of clause 37.2.



Schedule A—Classification Definitions

A.1              Retail Employee Level 1

A.1.1          Retail Employee Level 1 means an employee performing any of the following functions at a retail establishment:

(a)         receiving or preparing for sale or displaying goods in or about a shop; or

(b)        pre-packing, packing, weighing, assembling, pricing or preparing goods, provisions or produce for sale; or

(c)         displaying, filling shelves, replenishing or any other method of exposing or presenting goods for sale; or

(d)        selling or hiring goods by any means; or

(e)         receiving, arranging or paying by any means; or

(f)          recording a sale or sales by any means; or

(g)         wrapping or packing goods for despatch or despatching goods; or

(h)        delivering goods; or

(i)           window dressing or merchandising; or

(j)          loss prevention; or

(k)        demonstrating goods for sale; or

(l)           providing information, advice or assistance to customers; or

(m)      receiving, preparing or packing goods for repair or replacement or making minor repairs to goods; or

(n)        as a direct employee of the retailer, providing cleaning, store greeting, security, lift attending, store cafeteria services or food services; or

(o)         any function of a Clerical Assistant Level 1; or

(p)        work that is incidental to, or connected with, any of the functions mentioned in clause A.1.1(a) to clause A.1.1(o).

A.1.2          A Retail Employee Level 1 must undertake duties as directed within the limits of their competence, skills and training, including incidental cleaning. For this purpose, the cleaning of toilets is not incidental cleaning except for a take away food establishment.

A.1.3          Indicative job titles that are usually within the definition of a Retail Employee Level 1 are:

(a)         shop assistant;

(b)        clerical assistant;

(c)         check-out operator;

(d)        store worker;

(e)         reserve stock hand;

(f)          driver;

(g)         boot or shoe repairer (not qualified);

(h)        window dresser (not qualified);

(i)           loss prevention officer;

(j)          photographic employee;

(k)        store greeter;

(l)           assembler;

(m)      ticket writer (not qualified);

(n)        trolley collector;

(o)         video hire worker;

(p)        telephone order salesperson;

(q)        door-to-door salesperson or retail outdoor salesperson;

(r)         demonstrator or merchandiser not elsewhere classified (including a demonstrator or merchandiser who is not a direct employee of the retailer).

A.1.4          Clerical Assistant Level 1 means an employee accountable for clerical and office tasks as directed within the skill levels set out in this clause.

A.1.5          Employees at this level may include the initial recruit who may have limited relevant experience. An initial recruit performs work under close direction using established practices, procedures and instructions.

A.1.6          Employees at Clerical Assistant Level 1 perform routine clerical and office functions requiring an understanding of clear, straightforward rules or procedures and may be required to operate certain office equipment. Problems can usually be solved by reference to established practices, procedures and instructions.

A.1.7          Employees at this level are responsible and accountable for their own work within established routines, methods and procedures and the less experienced employee’s work may be subject to checking at all stages. The more experienced employee may be required to give assistance to less experienced employees in the same classification.

A.1.8          Indicative typical duties and skills within the definition of a Clerical Assistant Level 1 include any of the following:

(a)         reception or switchboard, for example, directing telephone callers to appropriate staff, issuing or receiving standard forms, relaying internal information or the initial greeting of visitors; or

(b)        maintaining basic records; or

(c)         filing, collating or photocopying; or

(d)        handling or distributing mail, including messenger service; or

(e)         recording, matching, checking or batching of accounts, invoices, orders or store requisitions; or

(f)          operating keyboard or other allied equipment in order to achieve competency as set out in Level 2.

A.2              Retail Employee Level 2

A.2.1          Retail Employee Level 2 means an employee performing work at a retail establishment at a higher skill level than a Retail Employee Level 1.

A.2.2          Indicative job titles that are usually within the definition of a Retail Employee Level 2 include:

(a)         forklift operator;

(b)        ride on equipment operator.

A.3              Retail Employee Level 3

A.3.1          Retail Employee Level 3 means an employee performing work at a retail establishment at a higher level than a Retail Employee Level 2.

A.3.2          Indicative of the tasks that might be required at this level are the following:

(a)         providing supervisory assistance to a designated section manager or team leader; or

(b)        opening or closing the premises or providing associated security; or

(c)         securing cash; or

(d)        fitting a surgical corset.

A.3.3          Indicative job titles that are usually within the definition of a Retail Employee Level 3 include:

(a)         machine operators;

(b)        second-in-charge to department manager;

(c)         senior salesperson (including designated second-in-charge of a section);

(d)        corsetiere;

(e)         driver selling stock;

(f)          cook (not qualified) in a cafeteria;

(g)         senior loss prevention officer, including an armed loss prevention officer;

(h)        loss prevention officer supervisor;

(i)           Designated second-in-charge to a service supervisor;

(j)          person employed alone, with responsibilities for the security and general running of a shop.

A.4              Retail Employee Level 4

A.4.1          Retail Employee Level 4 means an employee performing work at a retail establishment at a higher level than a Retail Employee Level 3. This may include an employee who has completed an appropriate trades course or holds an appropriate Certificate III and is required to use their qualifications in the course of their work.

A.4.2          Indicative of the tasks that might be required at this level are the following:

(a)         managing a defined department or section; or

(b)        supervising up to 4 sales staff (including self); or

(c)         stock control; or

(d)        buying or ordering requiring the exercise of discretion as to price, quantity, quality and other matters; or

(e)         utilising the skills of a trades qualification for the majority of the time in a week; or

(f)          any function of a Clerical Officer Level 2.

A.4.3          Indicative job titles that are usually within the definition of a Retail Employee Level 4 include:

(a)         assistant, deputy, or second-in-charge shop manager of a shop without departments;

(b)        butcher, baker, pastry cook or florist (for an employee who is required to utilise the skills of a trade qualification for the majority of the time in a week);

(c)         qualified auto parts and accessories salesperson;

(d)        window dresser (Certificate III or equivalent experience);

(e)         boot or shoe repairer (Certificate III);

(f)          shiftwork supervisor;

(g)         department or section manager with up to 2 employees (including self);

(h)        service supervisor of up to 15 employees;

(i)           nightfill supervisor or leader.

A.4.4          Clerical Officer Level 2 characteristics:

(a)         Clerical Officer Level 2 caters for employees who have had sufficient experience or training to enable them to carry out their assigned duties under general direction.

(b)        Employees at this level are responsible and accountable for their own work which is performed within established guidelines. In some situations, detailed instructions may be necessary. This may require the employee to exercise limited judgment and initiative within the range of their skills and knowledge.

(c)         The work of these employees may be subject to final checking and, as required, progress checking. These employees may be required to check the work of, or provide guidance to, other employees at a lower level or provide assistance to less experienced employees at the same level.

A.4.5          Indicative typical duties and skills within the definition of Clerical Officer Level 2 include:

(a)         reception or switchboard duties as in Level 1 and, in addition, responding to enquiries as appropriate, consistent with the acquired knowledge of the organisation’s operations and services, or where presentation and use of interpersonal skills are a key aspect of the position; or

(b)        operating computerised radio telephone equipment, micro personal computer, printing devices attached to personal computer or dictaphone equipment; or

(c)         using a word processing software package to create, format, edit, correct, print and save text documents, for example, standard correspondence and business documents; or

(d)        stenographer or person solely employed to take shorthand and to transcribe by means of appropriate keyboard equipment; or

(e)         copy typing and audio typing; or

(f)          maintaining records or journals, including initial processing and recording relating to any of the following:

(i)           reconciliation of accounts to balance; or

(ii)        incoming or outgoing cheques; or

(iii)      invoices; or

(iv)       debit or credit items; or

(v)         payroll data; or

(vi)       petty cash imprest system; or

(vii)    letters; or

(g)         using a software package that may include any of the following functions:

(i)           creating new files or records; or

(ii)        spreadsheet or worksheet; or

(iii)      graphics; or

(iv)       accounting or payroll file; or

(v)         following standard procedures and using existing models or fields of information; or

(h)        arranging routine travel bookings and itineraries or making appointments; or

(i)           providing general advice or information on the organisation’s products and services, for example, front counter or telephone.

A.5              Retail Employee Level 5

A.5.1          Retail Employee Level 5 means an employee performing work in or in connection with a retail establishment at a higher level than a Retail Employee Level 4.

A.5.2          Indicative job titles that are usually within the definition of a Retail Employee Level 5 include:

(a)         tradesperson in charge of other tradespersons within a department or section;

(b)        service supervisor (more than 15 employees).

A.6              Retail Employee Level 6

A.6.1          Retail Employee Level 6 means an employee performing work in or in connection with a retail establishment at a higher level than a Retail Employee Level 5.

A.6.2          Indicative job titles that are usually within the definition of a Retail Employee Level 6 include:

(a)         department or section manager with 5 or more employees (including self);

(b)        manager or duty manager in a shop without departments or sections (may be under direction of a person not exclusively involved in shop management);

(c)         assistant or deputy or second-in-charge to a shop manager of a shop with departments or sections;

(d)        Clerical Officer Level 3.

A.6.3          Clerical Officer Level 3 characteristics:

(a)         Employees at this level have achieved a standard to be able to perform specialised or non-routine tasks or features of the work. Employees require only general guidance or direction and there is scope for the exercise of limited initiative, discretion and judgment in carrying out their assigned duties.

(b)        Employees may be required to give assistance or guidance (including guidance in relation to quality of work and that may require some allocation of duties) to employees at Levels 1 and 2 and be able to train such employees by means of personal instruction and demonstration.

A.6.4          Indicative typical duties and skills at this level include:

(a)         preparing cash payment summaries, banking reports and bank statements; calculating and maintaining wage and salary records; following credit referral procedures; applying purchasing and inventory control requirements; post journals to ledger; or

(b)        providing specialised advice or information on the organisation’s products and services; responding to client or public or supplier problems within own functional area utilising a high degree of interpersonal skills; or

(c)         applying one or more computer software packages developed for a micro personal computer or a central computer resource to do any of the following:

(i)           create new files or records; or

(ii)        maintain computer-based records management systems; or

(iii)      identify and extract information from internal and external sources; or

(iv)       use advanced word processing or keyboard functions; or

(d)        arranging travel bookings and itineraries; making appointments; screening telephone calls; responding to invitations; organising internal meetings on behalf of executive(s); establishing and maintaining reference lists or personal contact systems for executive(s); or

(e)         applying specialist terminology or processes in professional offices.

NOTE: These typical duties or skills may be either at Level 3 or Level 4 dependent on the characteristics of that particular Level.

A.7              Retail Employee Level 7

A.7.1          Retail Employee Level 7 means an employee performing work in or in connection with a retail establishment at a higher level than a Retail Employee Level 6.

A.7.2          Indicative job titles that are usually within the definition of a Retail Employee Level 7 include:

(a)         visual merchandiser (Diploma); and

(b)        Clerical Officer Level 4.

A.7.3          Clerical Officer Level 4 characteristics:

(a)         Employees at this level must have achieved a level of organisation or industry specific knowledge sufficient for them to give advice or provide information to the organisation and clients in relation to specific areas of their responsibility.

(b)        Employees would require only limited guidance or direction and would normally report to more senior staff as required. Although not a pre-requisite, a principal feature of this level is supervision of employees in lower levels in terms of responsibility for the allocation of duties, co-ordinating workflow, checking progress, quality of work and resolving problems.

(c)         Employees exercise initiative, discretion and judgment at times in the performance of their duties.

(d)        Employees are able to train employees in Clerical Levels 1–3 by personal instruction and demonstration.

A.7.4          Indicative typical duties and skills at this level include:

(a)         providing secretarial or executive support services that may include maintaining executive diary; attending executive or organisational meetings and taking minutes; establishing or maintaining current working and personal filing systems for executive; answering executive correspondence from oral or handwritten instructions; or

(b)        preparing financial or tax schedules, calculating costings or wage and salary requirements; completing personnel or payroll data for authorisation; reconciliation of accounts to balance; or

(c)         giving advice or providing information on any of the following:

(i)           employment conditions; or

(ii)        workers compensation procedures and regulations; or

(iii)      superannuation entitlements, procedures and regulations; or

(d)        applying one or more computer software packages, developed for a micro personal computer or a central computer resource to do any of the following:

(i)           create new files or records; or

(ii)        maintain computer-based management systems; or

(iii)      identify and extract information from internal and external sources; or

(iv)       use advanced word processing or keyboard functions.

NOTE: These typical duties or skills may be either at Level 3 or Level 4 dependent on the characteristics of that particular Level.

A.8              Retail Employee Level 8

A.8.1          Retail Employee Level 8 means an employee performing work in or in connection with a retail establishment at a higher level than a Retail Employee Level 7.

A.8.2          A Retail Employee Level 8 may have a Diploma qualification.

A.8.3          Indicative job titles that are usually within the definition of a Retail Employee Level 8 include:

(a)         shop manager of a shop with departments or sections; and

(b)        Clerical Officer Level 5.

A.8.4          Clerical Officer Level 5 characteristics:

(a)         Employees at this level are subject to broad guidance or direction and report to more senior staff as required.

(b)        Employees will typically have worked or studied in a relevant field and will have achieved a standard of relevant or specialist knowledge and experience sufficient to enable them to advise on a range of activities and features and contribute, as required, to the determination of objectives, within the relevant field(s) of their expertise.

(c)         Employees are responsible and accountable for their own work and may have delegated responsibility for the work under their control or supervision, in terms of, among other things, scheduling workloads, resolving operations problems, monitoring the quality of work produced as well as counselling staff for performance as well as work related matters.

(d)        Employees would also be able to train and supervise employees in lower levels by means of personal instruction and demonstration. They would also be able to assist in the delivery of training courses. They often exercise initiative, discretion and judgment in the performance of their duties.

(e)         The possession of relevant post secondary qualifications may be appropriate but not essential.

A.8.5          Indicative typical duties and skills at this level include:

(a)         applying knowledge of the organisation’s objectives, performance, projected areas of growth, product trends and general industry conditions; or

(b)        applying computer software packages within either a micro personal computer or a central computer resource, including integrating complex word processing or desktop publishing, text and data documents or

(c)         providing reports for management in any of the following areas:

(i)           account or financial; or

(ii)        staffing; or

(iii)      legislative requirements; or

(iv)       other company activities.

(d)        administering individual executive salary packages, travel expenses, allowances and company transport; administering salary and payroll requirements of the organisation.



Schedule B—Summary of Hourly Rates of Pay

[Varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR727385, PR728848; corrected by PR729006; varied by PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR767876, PR773888, PR786542]

See also Part 4—Wages and Allowances and Part 5—Overtime and Penalty Rates.

B.1               Full-time and part-time adult employees other than shiftworkers

B.1.1          Full-time and part-time adult employees other than shiftworkers—ordinary and penalty rates

[B.1.1 varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

 

Ordinary hours

Monday to Friday after 6.00 pm

Saturday

Sunday

Public holiday

 

% of minimum hourly rate

 

100%

125%

125%

150%

225%

 

$

$

$

$

$

Retail Employee Level 1

26.55

33.19

33.19

39.83

59.74

Retail Employee Level 2

27.16

33.95

33.95

40.74

61.11

Retail Employee Level 3

27.58

34.48

34.48

41.37

62.06

Retail Employee Level 4

28.12

35.15

35.15

42.18

63.27

Retail Employee Level 5

29.27

36.59

36.59

43.91

65.86

Retail Employee Level 6

29.70

37.13

37.13

44.55

66.83

Retail Employee Level 7

31.19

38.99

38.99

46.79

70.18

Retail Employee Level 8

32.45

40.56

40.56

48.68

73.01

B.1.2          Full-time and part-time adult shiftworkers—shiftwork and penalty rates

[B.1.2 varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

 

Other than baking production employees (OBPE)

Baking production employees (BPE)

Early morning shifts

All shiftworkers

 

Monday to Friday

Saturday

Sunday

Public holiday

 

Starting at or after 6.00 pm and before 5.00 am

Starting at or after 2.00 am and before 6.00 am

Starting before 2.00 am

OBPE1

BPE2

All hours within shift

 

% of minimum hourly rate

 

130%

112.5%

130%

150%

175%

225%

 

$

$

$

$

$

$

Retail Employee Level 1

34.52

29.87

34.52

39.83

46.46

59.74

Retail Employee Level 2

35.31

30.56

35.31

40.74

47.53

61.11

Retail Employee Level 3

35.85

31.03

35.85

41.37

48.27

62.06

Retail Employee Level 4

36.56

31.64

36.56

42.18

49.21

63.27

Retail Employee Level 5

38.05

32.93

38.05

43.91

51.22

65.86

Retail Employee Level 6

38.61

33.41

38.61

44.55

51.98

66.83

Retail Employee Level 7

40.55

35.09

40.55

46.79

54.58

70.18

Retail Employee Level 8

42.19

36.51

42.19

48.68

56.79

73.01

1 Other than baking production employees (OBPE): Starting at or after 6.00 pm and before 5.00 am on the following day;

2 Baking production employees (BPE):

– working a shift starting at or after 2.00 am and before 6.00 am; or

– start shift prior to 2.00 am.

B.1.3          All full-time and part-time adult employees—overtime rates

[B.1.3 varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

 

Monday to Saturday – first 3 hours

Monday to Saturday – after 3 hours

Sunday – all day

Public holiday

 

% of minimum hourly rate

 

150%

200%

200%

250%

 

$

$

$

$

Retail Employee Level 1

39.83

53.10

53.10

66.38

Retail Employee Level 2

40.74

54.32

54.32

67.90

Retail Employee Level 3

41.37

55.16

55.16

68.95

Retail Employee Level 4

42.18

56.24

56.24

70.30

Retail Employee Level 5

43.91

58.54

58.54

73.18

Retail Employee Level 6

44.55

59.40

59.40

74.25

Retail Employee Level 7

46.79

62.38

62.38

77.98

Retail Employee Level 8

48.68

64.90

64.90

81.13

B.2               Casual adult employees

B.2.1          Casual adult employees other than shiftworkers—ordinary and penalty rates

[B.2.1 varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR727385, PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

 

Ordinary hours

Monday to Friday after 6.00 pm

Saturday

Sunday

Public holiday

 

% of minimum hourly rate

 

125%

150%

150%

175%

250%

 

$

$

$

$

$

Retail Employee Level 1

33.19

39.83

39.83

46.46

66.38

Retail Employee Level 2

33.95

40.74

40.74

47.53

67.90

Retail Employee Level 3

34.48

41.37

41.37

48.27

68.95

Retail Employee Level 4

35.15

42.18

42.18

49.21

70.30

Retail Employee Level 5

36.59

43.91

43.91

51.22

73.18

Retail Employee Level 6

37.13

44.55

44.55

51.98

74.25

Retail Employee Level 7

38.99

46.79

46.79

54.58

77.98

Retail Employee Level 8

40.56

48.68

48.68

56.79

81.13

B.2.2          Casual adult shiftworkers—shiftwork and penalty rates

[B.2.2 varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

 

Other than baking production employees (OBPE)

Baking production employees (BPE)

Early morning shifts

All shiftworkers

 

Monday to Friday

Saturday

Sunday

Public holiday

 

Starting at or after 6.00 pm and before 5.00 am

Starting at or after 2.00 am and before 6.00 am

Starting before 2.00 am

OBPE1

BPE2

All hours within shift

 

% of minimum hourly rate

 

155%

137.5%

155%

175%

200%

250%

 

$

$

$

$

$

$

Retail Employee Level 1

41.15

36.51

41.15

46.46

53.10

66.38

Retail Employee Level 2

42.10

37.35

42.10

47.53

54.32

67.90

Retail Employee Level 3

42.75

37.92

42.75

48.27

55.16

68.95

Retail Employee Level 4

43.59

38.67

43.59

49.21

56.24

70.30

Retail Employee Level 5

45.37

40.25

45.37

51.22

58.54

73.18

Retail Employee Level 6

46.04

40.84

46.04

51.98

59.40

74.25

Retail Employee Level 7

48.34

42.89

48.34

54.58

62.38

77.98

Retail Employee Level 8

50.30

44.62

50.30

56.79

64.90

81.13

1 Other than baking production employees (OBPE): Starting at or after 6.00 pm and before 5.00 am on the following day;

2 Baking production employees (BPE):

– working a shift starting at or after 2.00 am and before 6.00 am; or

– start shift prior to 2.00 am.

B.3               Junior full-time and part-time employees

The junior hourly rate is based on a percentage of the appropriate adult rate in accordance with Table 4—Minimum rates. Adult rates apply from 21 years of age in accordance with Table 4—Minimum rates.

B.3.1          Full-time and part-time junior employees other than shiftworkers—ordinary and penalty rates

[B.3.1 varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR728848, PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR767876, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

 

Ordinary hours

Monday to Friday after 6.00 pm

Saturday

Sunday

Public holiday

 

% of junior hourly rate

 

100%

125%

125%

150%

225%

 

$

$

$

$

$

Retail Employee Level 1

 

 

 

 

 

Under 16 years of age

11.95

14.94

14.94

17.93

26.89

16 years of age

13.28

16.60

16.60

19.92

29.88

17 years of age

15.93

19.91

19.91

23.90

35.84

18 years of age

18.59

23.24

23.24

27.89

41.83

19 years of age

21.24

26.55

26.55

31.86

47.79

20 years of age and employed by the employer for 6 months or less

23.90

29.88

29.88

35.85

53.78

20 years of age and employed by the employer for more than 6 months

26.55

33.19

33.19

39.83

59.74

Retail Employee Level 2

 

 

 

 

 

Under 16 years of age

12.22

15.28

15.28

18.33

27.50

16 years of age

13.58

16.98

16.98

20.37

30.56

17 years of age

16.29

20.36

20.36

24.44

36.65

18 years of age

19.01

23.76

23.76

28.52

42.77

19 years of age

21.73

27.16

27.16

32.60

48.89

20 years of age and employed by the employer for 6 months or less

24.44

30.55

30.55

36.66

54.99

20 years of age and employed by the employer for more than 6 months

27.16

33.95

33.95

40.74

61.11

Retail Employee Level 3

 

 

 

 

 

Under 16 years of age

12.41

15.51

15.51

18.62

27.92

16 years of age

13.79

17.24

17.24

20.69

31.03

17 years of age

16.55

20.69

20.69

24.83

37.24

18 years of age

19.31

24.14

24.14

28.97

43.45

19 years of age

22.06

27.58

27.58

33.09

49.64

20 years of age and employed by the employer for 6 months or less

24.82

31.03

31.03

37.23

55.85

20 years of age and employed by the employer for more than 6 months

27.58

34.48

34.48

41.37

62.06

B.3.2          Full-time and part-time junior shiftworkers—shiftwork and penalty rates

[B.3.2 varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR728848, PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR767876, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

 

Other than baking production employees (OBPE)

Baking production employees (BPE)

Early morning shifts

All shiftworkers

 

Monday to Friday

Saturday

Sunday

Public holiday

 

Starting at or after 6.00 pm and before 5.00 am

Starting at or after 2.00 am and before 6.00 am

Starting before 2.00 am

OBPE1

BPE2

All hours within shift

 

% of junior hourly rate

 

130%

112.5%

130%

150%

175%

225%

 

$

$

$

$

$

$

Retail Employee Level 1

 

 

 

 

 

 

Under 16 years of age

15.54

13.44

15.54

17.93

20.91

26.89

16 years of age

17.26

14.94

17.26

19.92

23.24

29.88

17 years of age

20.71

17.92

20.71

23.90

27.88

35.84

18 years of age

24.17

20.91

24.17

27.89

32.53

41.83

19 years of age

27.61

23.90

27.61

31.86

37.17

47.79

20 years of age and employed by the employer for 6 months or less

31.07

26.89

31.07

35.85

41.83

53.78

20 years of age and employed by the employer for more than 6 months

34.52

29.87

34.52

39.83

46.46

59.74

Retail Employee Level 2

 

 

 

 

 

 

Under 16 years of age

15.89

13.75

15.89

18.33

21.39

27.50

16 years of age

17.65

15.28

17.65

20.37

23.77

30.56

17 years of age

21.18

18.33

21.18

24.44

28.51

36.65

18 years of age

24.71

21.39

24.71

28.52

33.27

42.77

19 years of age

28.25

24.45

28.25

32.60

38.03

48.89

20 years of age and employed by the employer for 6 months or less

31.77

27.50

31.77

36.66

42.77

54.99

20 years of age and employed by the employer for more than 6 months

35.31

30.56

35.31

40.74

47.53

61.11

Retail Employee Level 3

 

 

 

 

 

 

Under 16 years of age

16.13

13.96

16.13

18.62

21.72

27.92

16 years of age

17.93

15.51

17.93

20.69

24.13

31.03

17 years of age

21.52

18.62

21.52

24.83

28.96

37.24

18 years of age

25.10

21.72

25.10

28.97

33.79

43.45

19 years of age

28.68

24.82

28.68

33.09

38.61

49.64

20 years of age and employed by the employer for 6 months or less

32.27

27.92

32.27

37.23

43.44

55.85

20 years of age and employed by the employer for more than 6 months

35.85

31.03

35.85

41.37

48.27

62.06

1 Other than baking production employees (OBPE): Starting at or after 6.00 pm and before 5.00 am on the following day;

2 Baking production employees (BPE):

– working a shift starting at or after 2.00 am and before 6.00 am; or

– start shift prior to 2.00 am.

B.3.3          All full-time and part-time junior employees—overtime rates

[B.3.3 varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR728848, PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR767876, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

 

Monday to Saturday – first 3 hours

Monday to Saturday – after 3 hours

Sunday – all day

Public holiday

 

% of junior hourly rate

 

150%

200%

200%

250%

 

$

$

$

$

Retail Employee Level 1

 

 

 

 

Under 16 years of age

17.93

23.90

23.90

29.88

16 years of age

19.92

26.56

26.56

33.20

17 years of age

23.90

31.86

31.86

39.83

18 years of age

27.89

37.18

37.18

46.48

19 years of age

31.86

42.48

42.48

53.10

20 years of age and employed by the employer for 6 months or less

35.85

47.80

47.80

59.75

20 years of age and employed by the employer for more than 6 months

39.83

53.10

53.10

66.38

Retail Employee Level 2

 

 

 

 

Under 16 years of age

18.33

24.44

24.44

30.55

16 years of age

20.37

27.16

27.16

33.95

17 years of age

24.44

32.58

32.58

40.73

18 years of age

28.52

38.02

38.02

47.53

19 years of age

32.60

43.46

43.46

54.33

20 years of age and employed by the employer for 6 months or less

36.66

48.88

48.88

61.10

20 years of age and employed by the employer for more than 6 months

40.74

54.32

54.32

67.90

Retail Employee Level 3

 

 

 

 

Under 16 years of age

18.62

24.82

24.82

31.03

16 years of age

20.69

27.58

27.58

34.48

17 years of age

24.83

33.10

33.10

41.38

18 years of age

28.97

38.62

38.62

48.28

19 years of age

33.09

44.12

44.12

55.15

20 years of age and employed by the employer for 6 months or less

37.23

49.64

49.64

62.05

20 years of age and employed by the employer for more than 6 months

41.37

55.16

55.16

68.95

B.3.4          Casual junior employees other than shiftworkers—ordinary and penalty rates

[B.3.4 varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR727385, PR728848; corrected by PR729006; varied by PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR767876, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

 

Ordinary hours

Monday to Friday after 6.00 pm

Saturday

Sunday

Public holiday

 

% of junior hourly rate

 

125%

150%

150%

175%

250%

 

$

$

$

$

$

Retail Employee Level 1

 

 

 

 

 

Under 16 years of age

14.94

17.93

17.93

20.91

29.88

16 years of age

16.60

19.92

19.92

23.24

33.20

17 years of age

19.91

23.90

23.90

27.88

39.83

18 years of age

23.24

27.89

27.89

32.53

46.48

19 years of age

26.55

31.86

31.86

37.17

53.10

20 years of age and employed by the employer for 6 months or less

29.88

35.85

35.85

41.83

59.75

20 years of age and employed by the employer for more than 6 months

33.19

39.83

39.83

46.46

66.38

Retail Employee Level 2

 

 

 

 

 

Under 16 years of age

15.28

18.33

18.33

21.39

30.55

16 years of age

16.98

20.37

20.37

23.77

33.95

17 years of age

20.36

24.44

24.44

28.51

40.73

18 years of age

23.76

28.52

28.52

33.27

47.53

19 years of age

27.16

32.60

32.60

38.03

54.33

20 years of age and employed by the employer for 6 months or less

30.55

36.66

36.66

42.77

61.10

20 years of age and employed by the employer for more than 6 months

33.95

40.74

40.74

47.53

67.90

Retail Employee Level 3

 

 

 

 

 

Under 16 years of age

15.51

18.62

18.62

21.72

31.03

16 years of age

17.24

20.69

20.69

24.13

34.48

17 years of age

20.69

24.83

24.83

28.96

41.38

18 years of age

24.14

28.97

28.97

33.79

48.28

19 years of age

27.58

33.09

33.09

38.61

55.15

20 years of age and employed by the employer for 6 months or less

31.03

37.23

37.23

43.44

62.05

20 years of age and employed by the employer for more than 6 months

34.48

41.37

41.37

48.27

68.95

B.3.5          Casual junior shiftworkers—shiftwork and penalty rates

[B.3.5 varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR728848, PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR767876, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

 

Other than baking production employees (OBPE)

Baking production employees (BPE)

Early morning shifts

All shiftworkers

 

Monday to Friday

Saturday

Sunday

Public holiday

 

Starting at or after 6.00 pm and before 5.00 am

Starting at or after 2.00 am and before 6.00 am

Starting before 2.00 am

OBPE1

BPE2

All hours within shift

 

% of junior hourly rate

 

155%

137.5%

155%

175%

200%

250%

 

$

$

$

$

$

$

Retail Employee Level 1

 

 

 

 

 

 

Under 16 years of age

18.52

16.43

18.52

20.91

23.90

29.88

16 years of age

20.58

18.26

20.58

23.24

26.56

33.20

17 years of age

24.69

21.90

24.69

27.88

31.86

39.83

18 years of age

28.81

25.56

28.81

32.53

37.18

46.48

19 years of age

32.92

29.21

32.92

37.17

42.48

53.10

20 years of age and employed by the employer for 6 months or less

37.05

32.86

37.05

41.83

47.80

59.75

20 years of age and employed by the employer for more than 6 months

41.15

36.51

41.15

46.46

53.10

66.38

Retail Employee Level 2

 

 

 

 

 

 

Under 16 years of age

18.94

16.80

18.94

21.39

24.44

30.55

16 years of age

21.05

18.67

21.05

23.77

27.16

33.95

17 years of age

25.25

22.40

25.25

28.51

32.58

40.73

18 years of age

29.47

26.14

29.47

33.27

38.02

47.53

19 years of age

33.68

29.88

33.68

38.03

43.46

54.33

20 years of age and employed by the employer for 6 months or less

37.88

33.61

37.88

42.77

48.88

61.10

20 years of age and employed by the employer for more than 6 months

42.10

37.35

42.10

47.53

54.32

67.90

Retail Employee Level 3

 

 

 

 

 

 

Under 16 years of age

19.24

17.06

19.24

21.72

24.82

31.03

16 years of age

21.37

18.96

21.37

24.13

27.58

34.48

17 years of age

25.65

22.76

25.65

28.96

33.10

41.38

18 years of age

29.93

26.55

29.93

33.79

38.62

48.28

19 years of age

34.19

30.33

34.19

38.61

44.12

55.15

20 years of age and employed by the employer for 6 months or less

38.47

34.13

38.47

43.44

49.64

62.05

20 years of age and employed by the employer for more than 6 months

42.75

37.92

42.75

48.27

55.16

68.95

1 Other than baking production employees: Starting at or after 6.00 pm and before 5.00 am on the following day;

2 Baking production employees:

– working a shift starting at or after 2.00 am and before 6.00 am; or

– start shift prior to 2.00 am.

B.4               Junior apprentice rates

B.4.1          The junior apprentice hourly rate is based on a percentage of the Level 4 adult rate in Table 4—Minimum rates.

B.4.2          The junior apprentice hourly rate for junior retail employee apprentices is calculated in accordance with clause 17.3—Apprentice rates.

B.4.3          Junior apprentice who began apprenticeship before 1 January 2014—ordinary and penalty rates

[B.4.3 varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

 

Ordinary hours

Monday to Friday after 6.00 pm

Saturday

Sunday

Public holiday

 

% of junior apprentice hourly rate

 

100%

125%

125%

150%

225%

 

$

$

$

$

$

1st year

14.06

17.58

17.58

21.09

31.64

2nd year

16.87

21.09

21.09

25.31

37.96

3rd year

22.49

28.11

28.11

33.74

50.60

4th year (4 year apprenticeship only)

25.30

31.63

31.63

37.95

56.93

B.4.4            Junior apprentice who began apprenticeship before 1 January 2014—shiftwork and penalty rates

[B.4.4 varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

 

Other than baking production employees (OBPE)

Baking production employees (BPE)

Early morning shifts

All shiftworkers

 

Monday to Friday

Saturday

Sunday

Public holiday

 

Starting at or after 6.00 pm and before 5.00 am

Starting at or after 2.00 am and before 6.00 am

Starting before 2.00 am

OBPE1

BPE2

All hours within shift

 

% of junior apprentice hourly rate

 

130%

112.5%

130%

150%

175%

225%

 

$

$

$

$

$

$

1st year

18.28

15.82

18.28

21.09

24.61

31.64

2nd year

21.93

18.98

21.93

25.31

29.52

37.96

3rd year

29.24

25.30

29.24

33.74

39.36

50.60

4th year (4 year apprenticeship only)

32.89

28.46

32.89

37.95

44.28

56.93

1 Other than baking production employees: Starting at or after 6.00 pm and before 5.00 am on the following day;

2 Baking production employees:

– working a shift starting at or after 2.00 am and before 6.00 am; or

– start shift prior to 2.00 am.

B.4.5          Junior apprentice who began apprenticeship before 1 January 2014—overtime rates

[B.4.5 varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

 

Monday to Saturday – first 3 hours

Monday to Saturday – after 3 hours

Sunday – all day

Public holiday

 

% of junior apprentice hourly rate

 

150%

200%

200%

250%

 

$

$

$

$

1st year

21.09

28.12

28.12

35.15

2nd year

25.31

33.74

33.74

42.18

3rd year

33.74

44.98

44.98

56.23

4th year (4 year apprenticeship only)

37.95

50.60

50.60

63.25

B.4.6          Junior apprentice who began apprenticeship on 1 January 2014 or later—ordinary and penalty rates

[B.4.6 varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

 

Ordinary hours

Monday to Friday after 6.00 pm

Saturday

Sunday

Public holiday

 

% of junior apprentice hourly rate

 

100%

125%

125%

150%

225%

 

$

$

$

$

$

Has not completed year 12

 

 

 

 

 

1st year

14.06

17.58

17.58

21.09

31.64

2nd year

16.87

21.09

21.09

25.31

37.96

3rd year

22.49

28.11

28.11

33.74

50.60

4th year (4 year apprenticeship only)

25.30

31.63

31.63

37.95

56.93

Completed year 12

 

 

 

 

 

1st year

15.46

19.33

19.33

23.19

34.79

2nd year

18.28

22.85

22.85

27.42

41.13

3rd year

22.49

28.11

28.11

33.74

50.60

4th year (4 year apprenticeship only)

25.30

31.63

31.63

37.95

56.93

B.4.7          Junior apprentice who began apprenticeship on 1 January 2014 or later—shiftwork and penalty rates

[B.4.7 varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

 

Other than baking production employees (OBPE)

Baking production employees (BPE)

Early morning shifts

All shiftworkers

 

Monday to Friday

Saturday

Sunday

Public holiday

 

Starting at or after 6.00 pm and before 5.00 am

Starting at or after 2.00 am and before 6.00 am

Starting before 2.00 am

OBPE1

BPE2

All hours within shift

 

% of junior apprentice hourly rate

 

130%

112.5%

130%

150%

175%

225%

 

$

$

$

$

$

$

Has not completed year 12

 

 

 

 

 

 

1st year

18.28

15.82

18.28

21.09

24.61

31.64

2nd year

21.93

18.98

21.93

25.31

29.52

37.96

3rd year

29.24

25.30

29.24

33.74

39.36

50.60

4th year (4 year apprenticeship only)

32.89

28.46

32.89

37.95

44.28

56.93

Completed year 12

 

 

 

 

 

 

1st year

20.10

17.39

20.10

23.19

27.06

34.79

2nd year

23.76

20.57

23.76

27.42

31.99

41.13

3rd year

29.24

25.30

29.24

33.74

39.36

50.60

4th year (4 year apprenticeship only)

32.89

28.46

32.89

37.95

44.28

56.93

1 Other than baking production employees: Starting at or after 6.00 pm and before 5.00 am on the following day;

2 Baking production employees:

– working a shift starting at or after 2.00 am and before 6.00 am; or

– start shift prior to 2.00 am.

B.4.8          Junior apprentice who began apprenticeship on 1 January 2014 or later—overtime rates

[B.4.8 varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

 

Monday to Saturday – first 3 hours

Monday to Saturday – after 3 hours

Sunday – all day

Public holiday

 

% of junior apprentice hourly rate

 

150%

200%

200%

250%

 

$

$

$

$

Has not completed year 12

 

 

 

 

1st year

21.09

28.12

28.12

35.15

2nd year

25.31

33.74

33.74

42.18

3rd year

33.74

44.98

44.98

56.23

4th year (4 year apprenticeship only)

37.95

50.60

50.60

63.25

Completed year 12

 

 

 

 

1st year

23.19

30.92

30.92

38.65

2nd year

27.42

36.56

36.56

45.70

3rd year

33.74

44.98

44.98

56.23

4th year (4 year apprenticeship only)

37.95

50.60

50.60

63.25

B.5               Adult apprentice rates

B.5.1          The adult apprentice hourly rate is calculated in accordance with clause 17.4—Adult apprentices.

B.5.2          Adult apprentice who began apprenticeship on 1 January 2014 or later—ordinary and penalty rates

[B.5.2 varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

 

Ordinary hours

Monday to Friday after 6.00 pm

Saturday

Sunday

Public holiday

 

% of adult apprentice hourly rate

 

100%

125%

125%

150%

225%

 

$

$

$

$

$

1st year

22.49

28.11

28.11

33.74

50.60

2nd year

26.55

33.19

33.19

39.83

59.74

3rd year

26.55

33.19

33.19

39.83

59.74

4th year (4 year apprenticeship only)

26.55

33.19

33.19

39.83

59.74

B.5.3          Adult apprentice who began apprenticeship on 1 January 2014 or later—shiftwork and penalty rates

[B.5.3 varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

 

Other than baking production employees (OBPE)

Baking production employees (BPE)

Early morning shifts

All shiftworkers

 

Monday to Friday

Saturday

Sunday

Public holiday

 

Starting at or after 6.00 pm and before 5.00 am

Starting at or after 2.00 am and before 6.00 am

Starting before 2.00 am

OBPE1

BPE2

All hours within shift

 

% of adult apprentice hourly rate

 

130%

112.5%

130%

150%

175%

225%

 

$

$

$

$

$

$

1st year

29.24

25.30

29.24

33.74

39.36

50.60

2nd year

34.52

29.87

34.52

39.83

46.46

59.74

3rd year

34.52

29.87

34.52

39.83

46.46

59.74

4th year (4 year apprenticeship only)

34.52

29.87

34.52

39.83

46.46

59.74

1 Other than baking production employees: Starting at or after 6.00 pm and before 5.00 am on the following day;

2 Baking production employees:

– working a shift starting at or after 2.00 am and before 6.00 am; or

– start shift prior to 2.00 am.

B.5.4          Adult apprentice who began apprenticeship on 1 January 2014 or later—overtime rates

[B.5.4 varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

 

Monday to Saturday – first 3 hours

Monday to Saturday – after 3 hours

Sunday – all day

Public holiday

 

% of adult apprentice hourly rate

 

150%

200%

200%

250%

 

$

$

$

$

1st year

33.74

44.98

44.98

56.23

2nd year

39.83

53.10

53.10

66.38

3rd year

39.83

53.10

53.10

66.38

4th year (4 year apprenticeship only)

39.83

53.10

53.10

66.38

   

Schedule C—Summary of Monetary Allowances

[Varied by PR718821, PR718977; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR729257, PR729444, PR740678, PR740850, PR750752, PR762112, PR762270, PR773888, PR774057, PR786542, PR786707]

See clause 19—Allowances for full details of allowances payable under this award.

C.1              Wage-related allowances:

[C.1.1 varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

C.1.1          The following wage-related allowances are based on the standard weekly rate defined in clause 2—Definitions as the minimum weekly rate for a Retail Employee Level 4 in Table 4—Minimum rates = $1068.40

Allowance

Clause

% of standard weekly rate

$

Payable

First aid allowance

19.10(b)

1.3

13.89

per week

Liquor licence allowance

19.12

3.1

33.12

per week

C.1.2          Hourly wage–related allowances

[C.1.2 varied by PR718821; corrected by PR725977; varied by PR729257, PR740678, PR762112, PR773888, PR786542 ppc 01Jul25]

The hourly wage-related allowances in this award are based on the standard hourly rate as defined in clause 2—Definitions as the minimum hourly rate for a Retail Employee Level 4 in Table 4—Minimum rates = $28.12.

Allowance

Clause

% of standard hourly rate

$

Payable

Cold work disability allowance—cold chambers; stocking and refilling refrigerated storages

19.9(b)

1.3

0.37

per hour

Cold work disability allowance—cold chambers; below 0°C—additional to clause 19.9(b)

19.9(c)

2.0

0.56

per hour

Broken Hill

19.13

4.28

1.20

per hour

C.1.3          Automatic adjustment of wage-related allowances

[C.1.3 inserted by PR750752 ppc 15Mar23]

The amount of each wage-related allowance is the percentage of the standard rate specified for the allowance and will automatically adjust to reflect the specified percentage when the standard rate is varied.

C.2              Expense-related allowances

[C.2.1 varied by PR718977, PR729444, PR740850, PR762270, PR774057, PR786707 ppc 01Jul25]

C.2.1          The expense-related allowances in this award will be adjusted by reference to the Consumer Price Index (CPI) as per the following:

Allowance

Clause

$

Payable

Meal allowance—more than one hour’s overtime without 24 hours’ notice

19.2(b)(i)

23.59

per occasion

Meal allowance—further 4 hours’ overtime

19.2(c)

21.39

per occasion

Special clothing allowance—laundering—full-time employee

19.3(c)(i)

6.25

per week

Special clothing allowance—laundering—part-time or casual employee

19.3(c)(ii)

1.25

per shift

Motor vehicle allowance

19.7

0.98

per km

C.2.2          Adjustment of expense-related allowances

(a)         At the time of any adjustment to the standard rate, each expense-related allowance will be increased by the relevant adjustment factor. The relevant adjustment factor for this purpose is the percentage movement in the applicable index figure most recently published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics since the allowance was last adjusted.

(b)        The applicable index figure is the index figure published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics for the Eight Capitals Consumer Price Index (Cat No. 6401.0), as follows:

Allowance

Applicable Consumer Price Index Figure

Meal allowance

Take away and fast foods sub-group

Special clothing allowance

Clothing and footwear group

Motor vehicle allowance

Private motoring sub-group

   



Schedule D—School-based Apprentices

D.1                In this Schedule:

D.1.1          off-the-job training is structured training delivered by a Registered Training Organisation separate from normal work duties or general supervised practice undertaken on the job; and

D.1.2          school-based apprentice is a person who is undertaking an apprenticeship in accordance with this schedule while also undertaking a course of secondary education.

D.2                A school-based apprenticeship may be undertaken in the trades covered by this award under a training agreement for an apprentice declared or recognised by the relevant State or Territory authority.

D.3                The relevant minimum hourly rates for full-time junior and adult apprentices provided for in this award apply to school-based apprentices for total hours worked, including time taken to be spent in off-the-job training.

D.4                Where an apprentice is a full-time school student, the time spent in off-the-job training, for which the apprentice must be paid, is 25% of the actual hours worked each week on-the-job. The wages paid for time spent in training may be averaged over the semester or year.

D.5                A school-based apprentice must be allowed, over the duration of the apprenticeship, the same amount of time to attend off-the-job training as an equivalent full-time apprentice.

D.6                The duration of the apprenticeship must be as specified in the training agreement for each apprentice but must not exceed 6 years.

D.7                School-based apprentices progress through the relevant wage scale at the rate of 12 months’ progression for each 2 years of employment as an apprentice or at the rate of competency based progression if provided for in this award.

D.8                The apprentice wage scales are based on a standard full-time apprenticeship of 4 years (unless the apprenticeship is of 3 years’ duration) or stages of competency based progression (if provided for in this award).

NOTE: The rate of progression reflects the average rate of skill acquisition expected from the typical combination of work and training for a school-based apprentice undertaking the applicable apprenticeship.

D.9                If an apprentice converts from school-based to full-time, the successful completion of competencies (if provided for in this award) and all time spent as a full-time apprentice will count for the purposes of progression through the relevant wage scale in addition to the progression achieved as a school-based apprentice.

D.10            School-based apprentices are entitled to all of the other conditions in this award on a proportionate basis.

Schedule E—Supported Wage System

[Varied by PR729672, PR742256, PR762969, PR774051, PR786538]

E.1                 This schedule defines the conditions which will apply to employees who because of the effects of a disability are eligible for a supported wage under the terms of this award.

E.2                 In this schedule:

approved assessor means a person accredited by the management unit established by the Commonwealth under the supported wage system to perform assessments of an individual’s productive capacity within the supported wage system.

assessment instrument means the tool provided for under the supported wage system that records the assessment of the productive capacity of the person to be employed under the supported wage system.

disability support pension means the Commonwealth pension scheme to provide income security for persons with a disability as provided under the Social Security Act 1991, as amended from time to time, or any successor to that scheme.

relevant minimum wage means the minimum wage prescribed in this award for the class of work for which an employee is engaged.

supported wage system means the Commonwealth Government system to promote employment for people who cannot work at full award wages because of a disability, as documented in the Supported Wage System Handbook. The Handbook is available from the following website: www.jobaccess.gov.au.

SWS wage assessment agreement means the document in the form required by the Department of Social Services that records the employee’s productive capacity and agreed wage rate.

E.3               Eligibility criteria

E.3.1          Employees covered by this schedule will be those who are unable to perform the range of duties to the competence level required within the class of work for which the employee is engaged under this award, because of the effects of a disability on their productive capacity and who meet the impairment criteria for receipt of a disability support pension.

E.3.2          This schedule does not apply to any existing employee who has a claim against the employer which is subject to the provisions of workers compensation legislation or any provision of this award relating to the rehabilitation of employees who are injured in the course of their employment.

E.4               Supported wage rates

E.4.1          Employees to whom this schedule applies will be paid the applicable percentage of the relevant minimum wage according to the following schedule:

Assessed capacity (clause E.5)

%

Relevant minimum wage

%

10

10

20

20

30

30

40

40

50

50

60

60

70

70

80

80

90

90

[E.4.2 varied by PR729672, PR742256, PR762969, PR774051, PR786538 ppc 01Jul25]

E.4.2          Provided that the minimum amount payable must be not less than $109 per week.

E.4.3          Where an employee’s assessed capacity is 10%, they must receive a high degree of assistance and support.

E.5               Assessment of capacity

E.5.1          For the purpose of establishing the percentage of the relevant minimum wage, the productive capacity of the employee will be assessed in accordance with the SWS by an approved assessor, having consulted the employer and employee and, if the employee so desires, a union which the employee is eligible to join.

E.5.2          All assessments made under this schedule must be documented in an SWS wage assessment agreement, and retained by the employer as a time and wages record in accordance with the Act.

E.6               Lodgement of SWS wage assessment agreement

E.6.1          All SWS wage assessment agreements under the conditions of this schedule, including the appropriate percentage of the relevant minimum wage to be paid to the employee, must be lodged by the employer with the Fair Work Commission.

E.6.2          All SWS wage assessment agreements must be agreed and signed by the employee and employer parties to the assessment. Where a union which has an interest in the award is not a party to the assessment, the assessment will be referred by the Fair Work Commission to the union by certified mail and the agreement will take effect unless an objection is notified to the Fair Work Commission within 10 working days.

E.7               Review of assessment

The assessment of the applicable percentage should be subject to annual or more frequent review on the basis of a reasonable request for such a review. The process of review must be in accordance with the procedures for assessing capacity under the SWS.

E.8               Other terms and conditions of employment

Where an assessment has been made, the applicable percentage will apply to the relevant minimum wage only. Employees covered by the provisions of this schedule will be entitled to the same terms and conditions of employment as other workers covered by this award on a pro rata basis.

E.9               Workplace adjustment

An employer wishing to employ a person under the provisions of this schedule must take reasonable steps to make changes in the workplace to enhance the employee’s capacity to do the job. Changes may involve re-design of job duties, working time arrangements and work organisation in consultation with other workers in the area.

E.10          Trial period

E.10.1      In order for an adequate assessment of the employee’s capacity to be made, an employer may employ a person under the provisions of this schedule for a trial period not exceeding 12 weeks, except that in some cases additional work adjustment time (not exceeding 4 weeks) may be needed.

E.10.2      During that trial period the assessment of capacity will be undertaken and the percentage of the relevant minimum wage for a continuing employment relationship will be determined.

[E.10.3 varied by PR729672, PR742256, PR762969, PR774051, PR786538 ppc 01Jul25]

E.10.3      The minimum amount payable to the employee during the trial period must be no less than $109 per week.

E.10.4      Work trials should include induction or training as appropriate to the job being trialled.

E.10.5      Where the employer and employee wish to establish a continuing employment relationship following the completion of the trial period, a further contract of employment will be entered into based on the outcome of assessment under clause E.5.

   



Schedule F—Agreement to Take Annual Leave in Advance

Link to PDF copy of Agreement to Take Annual Leave in Advance.

 

Name of employee: _____________________________________________

Name of employer: _____________________________________________

The employer and employee agree that the employee will take a period of paid annual leave before the employee has accrued an entitlement to the leave:

The amount of leave to be taken in advance is: ____ hours/days

The leave in advance will commence on: ___/___/20___

 

Signature of employee: ________________________________________

Date signed: ___/___/20___

 

Name of employer representative: ________________________________________

Signature of employer representative: ________________________________________

Date signed: ___/___/20___

 

[If the employee is under 18 years of age - include:]

I agree that:

if, on termination of the employee’s employment, the employee has not accrued an entitlement to all of a period of paid annual leave already taken under this agreement, then the employer may deduct from any money due to the employee on termination an amount equal to the amount that was paid to the employee in respect of any part of the period of annual leave taken in advance to which an entitlement has not been accrued.

Name of parent/guardian: ________________________________________

Signature of parent/guardian: ________________________________________

Date signed: ___/___/20___

   

Schedule G—Agreement to Cash Out Annual Leave

Link to PDF copy of Agreement to Cash Out Annual Leave.

 

Name of employee: _____________________________________________

Name of employer: _____________________________________________

 

The employer and employee agree to the employee cashing out a particular amount of the employee’s accrued paid annual leave:

The amount of leave to be cashed out is: ____ hours/days

The payment to be made to the employee for the leave is: $_______ subject to deduction of income tax/after deduction of income tax (strike out where not applicable)

The payment will be made to the employee on: ___/___/20___

 

Signature of employee: ________________________________________

Date signed: ___/___/20___

 

Name of employer
representative: ________________________________________

Signature of employer
representative: ________________________________________

Date signed: ___/___/20___

 

Include if the employee is under 18 years of age:

 

Name of parent/guardian: ________________________________________

Signature of parent/guardian: ________________________________________

Date signed: ___/___/20___

   

[Schedule H—Part-day Public Holidays deleted by PR747326 ppc 14Nov22]

[Schedule X—Additional Measures During the COVID-19 Pandemic varied by PR728080, PR736911; deleted by PR746868 ppc 17Oct22]

 

Details
Pay Guides
Versions
Determinations
Link to FWC Award
Disclaimer
First Nations artwork 2024 icon

The Fair Work Ombudsman acknowledges the Traditional Custodians of Country throughout Australia and their continuing connection to land, waters, skies and communities. We pay our respects to them, their Cultures, and Elders past and present.


Find information for...
Agriculture
Building and construction sector
Changes to workplace laws
Contract cleaning
COVID-19 and workplace laws
Disability support and aged care services
Employees with disability
Fast food, restaurants and cafes
First Nations people
Franchises
Higher education
Independent contractors
Labour hire and supply chains
Maritime industry
Parents and families
Small businesses
Visa holders and migrants
Workplace relations professionals
Young workers and students
About us
Our role and purpose
Our people
Workplace laws
Compliance and enforcement
Legislation
Community assistance
Engagement and collaboration
Accountability
Careers
Contact us
Resources
Templates
Best practice guides
Fact sheets
Workplace guides
Calculators
Library
Online learning centre
Webinars
Find my award
Record my hours app
Language help
Glossary of terms
Get help
Accessibility
Copyright
Disclaimer
Privacy
Subscribe to email updates Visit Fair Work on YouTube Visit Fair Work on X Visit Fair Work on Facebook Visit Fair Work on Instagram Visit Fair Work on LinkedIn
